PM deny knowledge of AWB kickback 
The Prime Minister have deny he know AWB be pay kickback to Iraq despite write to the wheat exporter ask to be keep fully inform on Iraq wheat sale . 
Letters from John Howard and Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile to AWB have be release by the Cole inquiry into the oil for food program . 
In one of the letter Mr Howard ask AWB manage director Andrew Lindberg to remain in close contact with the Government on Iraq wheat sale . 
The Opposition 's Gavan O'Connor say the letter be send in 2002 , the same time AWB be pay kickback to Iraq though a Jordanian trucking company . 
He say the Government can longer wipe it hand of the illicit payment , which total $ 290 million . 
`` The responsibility for this must lay may squarely at the foot of Coalition minister in trade , agriculture and the Prime Minister , '' he say . 
But the Prime Minister say letter show he be inquire about the future of wheat sale in Iraq and do not prove the Government knew of the payment . 
`` It would have be astonish in 2002 if a Prime Minister I have n't do anything I possibly could to preserve Australia 's very valuable wheat market , '' he say . 

Email question 
Today at the inquiry , AWB trading manager Peter Geary have be question about an email he receive in May 2000 . 
It indicate that the Iraqi Grains Board have approach AWB to provide `` after-sales service '' . 
Mr Geary say he have forward the email to two AWB colleague and do not remember read it , although he say he may have skim it . 

Support 
AWB still have plenty of support among grain grower in central western New South Wales despite the revelation of the Cole inquiry . 
Producers say they broadly support AWB 's attempt to get the best price for their product . 
`` I think it 's all a ploy by overseas interest to try and get the single desk put aside . The story that be go round about the commission and everything , I think that 's the way people have get to do thing to do business with the Middle East and Asian country , '' one producer say . 
`` I think it 's actually a pretty reasonable system and I think actually I 'd give them pretty fair support at the moment . I think on average they 've perform fairly well , '' another producer say . 
`` The big thing about someone else take over be whether the multinationals will get too much of a foothold in there and take it too much to their advantage . '' 

Grain price 
But an analyst predict grain price will drop another $ 20 a tonne on the back of the inquiry into AWB . 
Malcolm Bartholomaeus say pool return have already drop by $ 20 a tonne this year from the average price over the past five year . 
He say the premium that AWB be achieve through it wheat export monopoly have be severely erode . 

SA farmer help fire ravage neighbour 
Farmers in South Australia 's south-east be donate truckloads of hay to their neighbour across the border in the wake of the Grampians bushfires . 
In just a few day , farmer have donate 250 tonne of hay , as well a agistment for cattle . 
They say that be just the beginning . 
Fodder drive coordinator Peter O'Conner say he have be overwhelm by the response . 
`` All the hay that 's go this week have all go from place that have donate one load or up to two load of hay , '' he say . 
`` We 've get one man that 's donate two full load and the rest be all one load , straight load that we 're move this week . 

Floodwaters close highway 
A major highway between the Northern Territory and Western Australia remain block by floodwaters today . 
The Victoria River have cut the Victoria Highway and also flood the remote Pigeon Hole Aboriginal community . 
Stockman Simon Ham describe the relocation of a hundred people to high ground . 
`` They have all their vehicle move out of the community and they have a few camp set up and they be move more people and belonging out with a couple of boat , just onto high ground , only 500 metre from the community , '' he say . 
`` They be up on a sandstone ridge at the moment and I think the river height might be up for a little long but I think it [ the Victoria River ] will start go down . '' 

Grain company sell for $ 9m 
Tasmania 's main grain company have change hand for the second time in just three year . 
The former state-owned Tasmanian Grain Elevators Board have be sell to local agribusiness Roberts Limited for about $ 9 million . 
The deal include silo at Launceston , Devonport and Powranna in northern Tasmania . 
John Macleod from Roberts Limited say the company bid when the board be first privatise . 
`` We be very disappointed we be n't successful at that point of time , '' he say . 

Wine worker stop work 
Workers at Hardy Wines ' Stanley winery in south-western New South Wales have walk off the job for the second time in a week . 
Forty staff walk out this morning in a dispute over a new enterprise bargaining agreement . 
The stopwork come just a the region 's wine grape crush get under way . 
Hardy Wines take the matter to the Industrial Relations Commission ( IRC ) on Friday . 

Wool body eye sportswear industry 
The $ 50 billion global sportswear industry be the new target of wool promotion body , Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) . 
AWI be show wool blend t-shirt and casual wear to manufacturer this week at the large trade show for the industry be hold in Germany . 
AWI 's Len Stephens say although wool-blend sportswear will be at the pricy end of the market , shopper be willing to pay more . 
`` The sport apparel market sector be one of the big and certainly the fast grow apparel sector in the world , and it 's no secret that wool have n't have a very big share of that market at all , '' he say . 
`` The level of wool , particularly Australian merino wool in the sport market be really almost below the radar . 

Organisation to step up ban rodeo campaign 
Tasmania 's rodeo industry be under sustain attack from animal right activist after another animal have to be destroy at a weekend event . 
A bucking horse be put down after break a leg at Ulverstone on Saturday . 
Two week ago , a bull be destroy after apparently break it back during a bull-riding competition at Carrick . 
The owner of both animal , Brian Fish , say they be unfortunate accident and not an animal welfare issue . 
But Emma Haswell from Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania say her organisation will up it effort to have rodeo ban . 

Snails use in cancer research 
New research be under way to investigate whether South Australian sea snail could eventually be use to treat cancer . 
Until now the state 's snail population have be virtually unexplored but Flinders University hop to discover beneficial compound in predatory sea snail , know a whelk . 
Marine biologist Dr Kirsten Benkendorff say the work follow research overseas , where clinical trial be now investigate anti-cancer property . 
`` The whelk that I 'm look at at the moment be not currently harvest and not really consider a useful resource so I think that there 's a lot of potential economic benefit from that side of thing , '' she say . 

Processors fail to meet kangaroo meat demand 
International demand for kangaroo meat be put pressure on Australian processor . 
Despite high price , harvest quota be not be meet leave a big gap in the market . 
Phil Franolick from King River International Processors in Perth say Europeans be attract to the meat 's low fat content and Russians be consume large amount of kangaroo sausage and mince . 
`` As far a I know every skerrick of manufactured meat that be produce by human consumption processor virtually go to the Russian market now , '' he say . 

People warn to be on snake alert 
With temperature soar this summer , particularly in southern Australia , snake be on the move . 
People be be warn to keep their eye open out in the paddock , especially in area hit by bushfires , with snake force from their usual habitat . 
Maria Dovey from Reptile Rescue Tasmania have these word of advice . 
`` Any people who be regularly outdoors , whether they be camp , bush walking , people who 're on the land work , they must always carry at least two bandage with them and a mobile phone , '' she say . 

Aerial spraying begin to control locust threat 
Victoria 's high country farmer have begin aerial spraying to try to control the threat of locust . 
It be the first time locust plague have make it to the region , with continued rain and warm weather assist breed condition . 
Pastures and crop have already be wipe out by the pest . 

Injury wo n't stop baton runner 
A southern Queensland cattle farmer say a knee injury will not stop him run in the Queen 's baton relay today in the lead-up to the Commonwealth Games . 
Stanthorpe 's Bill Bonner travel to Coffs Harbour in New South Wales to run his leg of the relay . 
And he say injury will not prevent him from make the 500 metre dash . 
`` About two week ago I be jump off my motorbike and twist a ligament in my knee and I have n't be able to do more than walk since , '' he say . 
`` But I promise you I will run that baton because you get such an adrenalin rush that I think you could only have one leg and you could still run it . '' 

The NZ apple debate continue 
In a New Zealand newspaper on the weekend , member of the New Zealand apple industry voice concern regard the legitimacy of the `` science '' use in the draft Import Risk Analysis put out last month by Biosecurity Australia . The draft Import Risk Analysis ( IRA ) determine the risk of fireblight and other pest and disease if New Zealand apple be import into Australia . 
Under the World Trade Organisation 's rule Australia can refuse the importation of New Zealand apple if they be able to provide scientific evidence of a substantial disease or pest risk . But accord to the New Zealand apple grower , `` professional '' scientific evidence show that mature apple import into Australia pose no risk of fireblight . However the spokesperson for the New Zealand base Australian Apple Access Group Phil Allison say Biosecurity Australia have not provide the mathematical model use to determine the `` scientific '' evidence state in the draft IRA . 
A spokesperson for Biosecurity Australia say : `` the formula use in the risk assessment be provide in the Draft Import Risk Analysis Report on New Zealand Apples , which be publish last December for anyone to read . A competent modeller can reproduce the model use in the risk analysis from the formula give in the report . '' The chairman of the fireblight task force , John Corboy , say the response and concern from New Zealand apple grower regard the draft IRA be not surprising , but Australia have to be able to exercise it right to refuse the apple base on the scientific evidence it have present in the IRA . 

Younger tree produce more pear 
A trial plot of young williams pear tree have produce fruit three year after they be plant . Usually the tree do n't produce fruit until they 're about five or six year old . The tree be part of a five year experimental project , fund by SPC Ardmona through the Canned Fruits Association , Horticulture Australia Limited and the Lenne family orchard - where the trial plot be locate . 
Horticulture consultant Bas Van Den Ende say the aim of the project be to increase the number of williams pear grow in the future by encourage the young tree to produce early than usual . 

Local federal National MP support AWB single desk 
The federal Member for Parkes , John Cobb , have bring into the debate over the future of AWB . This come a the Cole inquiry continue to examine AWB 's role in the Iraq oil-for-food program . On top of this the National party will today try and reinvent itself . Mr Cobb say he support the single desk and producer must become far more pro-active . On the issue of the National party 's future , he say they will make themselves different from the Liberals . Mr Cobb say they do represent regional area far well then his Liberal colleague . 

Fish death believe to be due to lack of oxygen 
The Department of Primary Industries be investigate a big fish kill in the Lachlan River upstream of the Lake Cargelligo Weir . Between 150 and 200 native fish die in the incident earlier this month . District Fisheries Officer Phillip McCarthy say murray cod , bream and golden and silver perch be kill but no introduced specie die . He say inquiry suggest the death be the result of an increased water flow not chemical poisoning . 

Vegetable industry concern on label 
Agriculture group AUSVEG say food label law in Australia be a joke because nobody follow them and enforcement of the rule be non-existent . AUSVEG say consumer be still be fool into think they 're buy Australian product because of false or poor labelling . 

Red tape slow west Kimberley horticulture 
The Kimberley could be WA 's food bowl with it top soil , available water and sunshine all year round - though it facing hurdle to expand . Sweet potato grower Paul Higgins still rely on a generator and say Broome horticulturalists be the only one in the state not connect to the grid . He and his neighbour have be apply to get a nine kilometre extension to the current grid system to bring them into line . A spokesperson from Western Power say it be possible , though it 's up to customer to pay for their connection cost , regardless of the distance from the exist grid . Land acquisition be also cause headache . Mr Higgins purchase adjoin country last June , though still have n't receive title . He ca n't improve the land until this be clear . `` All the issue have be resolve - area survey , native title issue have be put to bed , monies have be pay , but still we do n't have land title . We ca n't clear the land , apply for water title , ca n't do anything , '' he say . The Minister for Planning and Infrastructure , Alannah McTiernan , say the seven month delay be regrettable and Mr Higgins should have be make aware of the hold up in the West Australian Planning Office because the land be not correctly zone . Though Ms McTiernan say the delay may have work in his favour , give the land be sell at 2004 property price . Mr Higgins still wait for the official all clear before he can start plough the Pindan for more potato . 

Richmond River to stay open to fisher 
The Department of Primary Industries have decide against close the Richmond River to commercial and recreational fisher in the wake of last week 's fish kill . About 300 dead fish and eel be discover near Wardell last Thursday , when oxygen level in the water drop alarmingly . The act director of fishery management , Anthony Hirst , say inspector will take further sample from the river tomorrow . 

Rural woman finalist 
The next 10 day may seem like an eternity for one at least one Rosebank farmer . Catherine Ford be one of three finalist in the quest to find the New South Wales Rural Woman of the Year . 
The macadamia producer hop a win in the event will help her to produce a guide promote sustainability in the industry , but she admit she 's amaze to have even make it this far . 

DSE 'is carry out proactive Grampians burn off ' 
On the rural report yesterday we hear farmer and CFA officer say they feel the intensity of the Grampians fire could have be lessen if more fuel reduction burn have be carry out in the national park . Charley DeFegley , who 's the Ararat VFF branch secretary and a CFA divisional commander , say he felt not enough burn off have be carry out and this have contribute to the destructive force of the fire . But the Department of Sustainability 's fire manager for the Horsham district and incident controller for the Grampians fire , Geoff Evans , say the agency have a proactive burning off policy . He say burn off be hamper because some landowner be not keen about burn off beside their property and the weather do not allow control burn at some time of the year , give a very small window of opportunity . He say there be also strong division within the community about whether more or less burn off should be carry out in the national park . But Mr Evans say about 5,000 to 8,000 hectare of the park be burn off every year . 

Farmers and ag agency get speedy aid to farmer 
The state government have announce it will commit million of dollar to the recovery effort for the new year bushfires include the blaze in the Grampians and a ministerial task force be to start assess need . The government say it will also help landowner face hardship a a result of their water supply be use by firefighting . But already , Department of Primary Industry officer , the Victorian Farmers Federation , haulage contractor and farmer all over western Victoria , have be work at a grassroots level to help fire affected landowner . Hundreds of tonne of hay , 21 semi-loads of which be bring to a collection point at Moyston from Warrnambool yesterday , have be donate to farmer who need fodder for their surviving animal . Bruce McKay say he have be on farm help to put sheep down and fix fencing in the Willaura area . Tim Wrench from the Warrnambool Coop say people come from all around the area to donate hay . Haulier Scott Wilson from Koroit say when he go onto farm to collect hay people say `` just load up until you 're full '' . Neil James from the DPI say hay be be donate from New South Wales and South Australia . Charlie DeFegeley from the VFF say the response have be amaze . 

Fuel price , weather blame for hike in fresh food cost 
Fuel price and fluctuate weather condition be be blame for a 12 per cent jump in the cost of fresh food over the past year . 
The late food industry analysis from Rabobank show consumer be pay more for their milk , meat , fruit and vegetable . 
But Rabobank 's Dr Ben Russell say the money be go to manufacturer and processor , not grower . 
`` In the case of pass on high fuel price it 's to the contrary because farmer have get to pay high fuel price as well a see the retail price of the product they 're produce go up , '' he say . 

Low price , fall demand slow down wheat export 
Wheat export have slow due to low price and fall demand from Australia 's traditional market . 
Despite some sale to Egypt , other market include Iraq , Pakistan , China and India have fail to deliver the expected number of contract . 
With the second large global crop on record , competition for tender be particularly fierce . 
Grains trader Lloyd George say there be a range of factor for the slow-down . 
`` Certainly Iraq have be an important customer of Australia 's over a period of time , put in pretty significant tonnage and over the recent month AWB have n't be export the quantity we have in the past , '' he say . 
`` But there 's a whole bunch of broad issue out there as well . A lot of the market whereby Australia would hope to sell the quantity of the harvest into be the same market that be quiet this year . '' 

Iraq market 
AWB 's national pool manager David Johnson deny the oil-for-food inquiry be have an impact on trade and say Australia have not lose Iraq a a major market . 
He say AWB submit a tender to supply a million tonne of wheat to Iraq last week . 
`` We 'll be look to participate in that tender , absolutely , '' he say . 
`` Probably relatively , compare to the structure of the market in previous year , this pool return might look a little different but the world market be different . 
`` I think it 's just a fact that the export business be extremely quiet and I think you 'd find the same comment from other export country around the world . '' 
AWB have announce an increase to new season pool estimate , lift the return for hard wheat by $ 2.00 a tonne and for noodle grade by $ 4.00 a tonne . 
There be a mixed outlook for other grain . 
Record soy bean harvest in the US , Ukraine and Brazil mean there be a large global supply of the canola alternative , which will put pressure on oil seed price in Australia . 
David Syme from the WA Grain Pool say malt barley sale have be slow due to the Chinese New Year but sale should soon pick up . 
`` At this point in time , Australia really have be hold the major stock of malt barley around the world , '' he say . 
`` The Canadians do n't have a lot to offer to the marketplace , that put u in a good position and of course the next lot of supply of malt barley really come out of Europe in August , so some time away yet . 
`` Once the Chinese re-emerge we look forward to a strong selling program . '' 

Inquiry chief 
Meanwhile the head of the oil-for-food inquiry have yet to respond to complaint that the investigation be not be conduct fairly . 
Counsel for AWB tell the hearing yesterday that witness have be ambush and ridicule . 
The comment be in response to criticism from Commissioner Terence Cole last week that AWB 's level of cooperation be a facade . 
AWB 's lawyer say Commissioner Cole 's expectation be unreasonable because of the time available to prepare witness statement and the availability of document . 
In another development , the New South Wales Farmers Association say it be prepared to fight to maintain the single desk for wheat export . 
Despite keep a low profile since the start of the inquiry , the association have today come out in support of the current monopoly export system . 
Grains committee chairman Angus McLaren say grow pressure from opponent of the single desk be concern but grain grower be prepared for any challenge to their marketing system . 
`` I think the most important thing we can do and what we 've be concentrate on do be gather our thought and do research and preparing for the battle that we think probably will occur , '' he say . 

Lib MP push for NZ apple ban 
A federal Liberal Party MP be push for a permanent ban on apple import from New Zealand . 
Russell Broadbent from the seat of McMillan , east of Melbourne , be draft a private member 's bill to ban import from any country with the disease fireblight . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have reject the bill , say it would also affect a wide range of import and export . 
But Mr Broadbent say he will push on with the plan . 
`` Mr McGauran be the Minister but he do n't actually have many orchard in his seat of Gippsland do he ? '' Mr Broadbent say . 
`` So I do n't suppose he 's expose a closely to the issue and a passionately to the issue a many of the backbench member be across the nation . '' 

Avocado grower to compete with NZ import 
With harvest about to begin , avocado grower be face stiff competition from New Zealand import . 
For the past five year , the import have petered out before the start of the local harvest but this year a record New Zealand crop have lead to a 50 per cent jump in export to Australia . 
North Queensland 's Shepard avocado will be the first to be pick here . 
Shepard Australia chairman Jim Kochi say grower need to focus on send quality fruit to the market . 
`` They certainly do n't have enough people leave in New Zealand to consume their crop , I think they 're all here in Australia ... most of them and so the rest of it be come to Australia and it be a large volume of fruit , '' he say . 

Govt urge to get tough on enforce food label law 
Fruit and vegetable grower be call on the Federal Government to get tough on state which do not enforce country-of-origin label law . 
Producer group AUSVEG say some state be not push for new law to be implement on fresh and package produce , and that be mislead consumer . 
Chief executive John Roach say the Australian Consumer and Competition Commission ( ACCC ) need to look at the issue again . 
`` Excuse the pun out of the vegetable industry but you do need a reasonable amount of carrot and you do need a little bit of stick , '' he say . 
`` And what have not happen with any consistency across Australia be that last one , that bit of stick , it be not consistent - it vary hugely and often there be case where it do n't exist at all . '' 
The ACCC say the label issue have be look at and the authority be satisfy with current compliance . 

Growers to get less for currant crop 
Dried fruit grower supply Australia 's large processor have be deal a major blow . 
Uncontracted currant grower have learn that they will receive just $ 650 per tonne for their fruit this year , half of what they be pay last year . 

Code of conduct for rodeo organiser 
Rodeo organiser in Tasmania will have to comply with a mandatory code of conduct in the future . 
The code be be implement after a public outcry over rodeo practice . 
There have be two very public incident at rodeo in the past fortnight that have outrage animal right activist and the television watch public . 
A bull be put down after drag it paralysed hindquarter behind it a it leave the ring and on Saturday a bucking horse be put down in the arena after it break a leg a it exit the chute . 
The public outcry have force the State Government to declare a mandatory set of regulation will soon be enforce on all rodeo before a permit be issue . 
A major requirement will be for a vet to be on site at all event , rather than only on call . 

Camp cook in demand 
Camp cook and grader driver be prove the hard job to fill on cattle station in northern Australia this year . 
The lure of high-paying mining job have keep many away from the Kimberley , in particular . 
While they have be lucky to get a full team at Flora Valley Station near Halls Creek , manager Wayne Bean say camp cook be a die breed . 
`` One time , once people finish work a stockhands or ringer on station they find their little niche in life , either cook for the station , or drive the grader or running a a bore runner but that just do n't seem to be happen now , '' he say . 
`` People be drift off into the mine and other big corporation and there 's still a few that seem who enjoy be on the station , and it 's not about money for them . 

Flooding cause detour 
Floodwaters in the Northern Territory be still block a major highway today . 
The Victoria Highway between Katherine and Kununurra be cut by swollen river in at least three place . 

NZ shearer break work record 
A team of New Zealand shearer have break the world three-stand lamb shearing record 
Jimmy Clarke and Peter and Shane Harvey shore 2,350 lamb in nine hour at Mt Linton Station on the South Island yesterday , break the record by 400 head . 
Peter Harvey say he have always want to shear 700 head a day and have now achieve that goal but do not realise how hard it would be . 

Live export to Egypt halt 
The Federal Government have halt live cattle export to Egypt in the wake of mistreatment claim . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say $ 350,000 be spend on improve the treatment of cattle at the Bassatin Abattoir in Egypt after cruelty concern be first raise in 2003 . 
But Channel Nine 's 60 Minutes program last night show footage of cattle have their tendon cut , which the program say be film last month . 
Mr McGauran say his decision to halt the trade while the claim be investigate , be not an extreme reaction . 
`` We should n't be defensive about this , '' he say . 
`` Where allegation be make , no matter how ill-founded or how lacking in evidence we must confront it head-on if we be to retain the confidence of the general public and fulfil our responsibility to farmer . '' 
Meat and Livestock Australia say the ban set a bad precedent . 
General manager of live export , Mike Hayward say he be certain the cattle show in the 60 Minutes footage be not from Australia . 
And he deny suggestion little have change since the cruelty claim be first raise three year ago . 

Iraq will still buy Aust wheat , Vaile say 
Trade Minister Mark Vaile have confirm Iraq will continue to buy Australian wheat but not from current exporter AWB , which be face claim it pay kickback to Saddam Hussein . 
But accord to grain analyst Australian grower could stay shut out of Iraq until August . 
While some grain exporter have already lodge application to export to Iraq , grain analyst Lloyd George say the next Iraq wheat tender may not by for another four month . 
`` Not have access to Iraq for maybe 60 per cent of the year would be significant , '' he say . 
But follow his mission to Baghdad , Mr Vaile say Iraq could be ready to take as much a 350,000 ton of wheat a month , but can not confirm any deal or when it may start . 
`` There will be further tender come up in the short term , we need to look at what mechanisms need to be deploy in the meantime to get our wheat grower access to that , '' he say . 
Meanwhile representative from grain company ABB Grain , CBH and Graincorp be meet with federal politician today . 
Western Australian Liberal Wilson Tuckey have organise the meeting to allow MPs to meet alternative grain trader and learn more about the grain industry . 
ABB 's manage director Michael Iwaniw say while his company be not advocate change to the wheat single desk , it be ready to take advantage of it . 
`` If , and I stress if , the legislation be to change and if there be opportunity , and if perhaps we could assist in the marketing of wheat for the benefit of Australian grower then we will certainly look at it , '' he say . 
A lecturer in business strategy at Melbourne Business School say grain grower would be good off without a single desk . 
Professor Paul Kerin say the oil-for-food inquiry justify the need to introduce free competition , and let alternative exporter to enter the market . 
Professor Kerin say the ability to spread risk be the key for grower . 
`` Under free competition , grower have a choice and if one of those trader mess up , then it 's not so much of a problem for grower because they can change to another trader , '' he say . 
`` In fact , grower should have the right to punish a trader if they really mess up , and so grower will be good off . 

Wool market expect to continue gain ground 
The wool industry be closely watching how China react to climb wool price with the season 's big sale this week . 
More than 82,000 bale be on offer in the wake of strong global interest which have push price to a season high of 746 cent a kilo clean . 
But Maurie McNeill from Elders Wool say despite some concern among buyer , the market should continue to gain ground . 
`` We 've get the large offering of the season come up this week , so obviously yes we be cautious and we 're see quite a bit of Chinese resistance at these level , '' he say . 

Harvey Beef handover delay 
The handover of Western Australia 's large beef processor and exporter Harvey Beef have be delay while the new owner try to strike a deal with worker . 
The Stark-Harmony consortium be due to takeover today but have ask for a one-week delay to allow worker to vote on a new enterprise bargaining agreement . 
Feedlotter Paul O'Meehan who help broker the Stark Harmony deal , say he hop they can sign off on the deal by next Monday . 
`` The new owner be good off get these problem sort and start with a fresh slate rather than go into business and not be organise , '' he say . 

Campaigners worry about approval of 'terminator technology ' 
Gene ethic campaigner be concern a technology which stop seed breed naturally will be approve for commercial cropping in Australia . 
Members of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity , include Australia , ban `` terminator technology '' in 2000 , when global protest force biotech company Monsanto to state it would not commercialise the process . 
But Bob Phelps from the Gene Ethics Network say the Federal Government be now reconsider it stance which would threaten the natural biodiversity of seed crop . 
`` At a recent meeting in Granada in Spain , the Australian Government be argue that the current ban should be modify , '' he say . 
`` The official be say that there be no ban on terminator in Australia at the moment and that any application that be make to the Australian regulator would be examine on a case by case basis . '' 
But Dr Jim Peacock from the CSIRO 's Plant Industries do not see the technology a a threat . 

Research to investigate fish movement 
Marine scientist say it be too early to tell whether climate change be responsible for a new mix of marine specie be find in Tasmanian water . 
Increasing number of southern Australian fish be be discover off Tasmania 's coastline . 
Two silver drummer be recently catch for the first time off the wharf at Stanley in the state 's north-west . 
CSIRO scientist Dr Peter Last say research be be carry out into whether climate change and warm water be the cause . 
`` It turn out that something like 10 per cent of the specie that we have in the coastal area of Tasmania have move far south , '' he say . 

WA brace for third cyclone 
The north-west of Western Australia be brace itself for a third cyclone in as many month , a a tropical low develops off the Pilbara coast . 
The Bureau of Meteorology expect the low to intensify rapidly and develop into a cyclone later today . 

Aquatic weed to be test overseas 
An invasive aquatic weed be prove extremely hard to eradicate from the Northern Territory . 
Cabomba have be discover in the remote coastal community of Gove . 
Further west , the Darwin River have be find to be the only place in the nation where the weed be produce viable seed . 
Regional weed officer Steve Wingrave say that explain the rapid spread of the weed along 11 kilometre of the river . 
`` It 's an ornamental plant , the same a rose or any plant you have in your garden , '' he say . 
`` Lots of them be hybrid variety so they be not go to produce viable seed . 
`` It turn out that we have get a variety which be produce viable seed . But it might n't be a result of the variety we have get . 

Farmers look to overhaul image 
A campaign to overhaul the image of Australian farmer kick off in Queensland today . 
The `` Every Family need a Farmer '' promotion be be run by Agforce and feature the Coe family , from Durong , in the state 's south . 
Cattle and grain producer Karen Coe hop it will change city people 's perception of agriculture . 
`` Just even on small term we have friend come out and say goodness you 've get lot of tree and they do n't fully understand that the way we farm these day be very different to drive a tractor around the paddock and ploughing , plough and ploughing , '' she say . 

New marine specie find in reef survey 
Several new specie of fish , plant and at least one new specie of crab have be discover in a big new survey of the Great Barrier Reef . 
Dr Roland Pitcher from the CSIRO say scientist spend more than 300 day at sea cover 536,000 square kilometre of the reef from Cape York to Fraser Island . 
`` We 've see a number of new fish , possibly a new pipehorse and maybe a new specie of crab at least , '' he say . 
`` And we can also confirm that there 's be a number of specie that have be confirm in Australia water for the first time . 

ABARE Outlook 2006 conference 
Today 's National Rural News be broadcast live from the ABARE Outlook conference in Canberra . 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` The Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics be take it best shot at predict what 's go to happen in the farming and mining sector over the next 12 month . It 's fairly good news so far , depend on how you look at it , because it appear there wo n't be too many nasty surprise for the nation 's farmer this year . James Martin have be talk to ABARE to get the late , what 's the story James ? '' 
James Martin : `` Matt , I do n't usually like use the word normal when it come to forecasting , but this be a normal an outlook a what I can remember . It 's a story of continue to build after drought , but with that predictable warning that without great improvement in world trade condition , the term of trade for farmer be really go to squeeze . ABARE tell u though that perhaps more of the same be not necessarily a bad thing . His morning , for instance , it 's tell u that the grain harvest for 05-06 be the second high on record . We 've also see , of course , good movement of beef into Japan , and we 're even see some rebound in the wool price as well . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` So it seem that there be go to be high production in many area in the time ahead . Is that go to translate to more money in farmer ' pocket ? '' 
James Martin : `` Not necessarily . Overall we 're see export earnings at a record $ 134b , that 's include mineral and energy . Now in the farm sector alone , those export earnings be tip at $ 29.6b in 06-07 , so that 's up 6 per cent on last year . But the warning be commodity price be go to decline across many area , so while we have increase production push up export earnings from wheat , rice , barley , sugar , wine , lamb , live export and dairy , we also have price for many item fall . Overall , ABARE say commodity price in the ag sector will fall by about 1.7 per cent , follow a rise in 05-06 of about 1.4 per cent . So the bottom line I suppose , the net value of farm production , will actually fall to around $ 6b in 06-07 . That 's down 6 per cent . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` What about the economic picture be paint by ABARE 's chief , Brian Fisher ? '' 
James Martin : `` Economic growth should continue at about 4 per cent , which it have be do over the last 12 month or so . There have be talk of that `` super-commodities cycle '' which be help growth in the mineral and energy sector actually cascade into agriculture . The message from Dr Fisher though be that wo n't happen : '' 
`` There have be people talk about the notion that we 've get a super commodity cycle that a whole lot of the action that we 've see in mineral and energy will then cascade into agriculture . I think frankly that 's a bit simplistic . A lot of the story in the case of agriculture be on the supply side . We be a I say before see a good strong demand , but in the case of agriculture , it 's both a demand and supply story '' . 
`` Brian Fisher also say that farm cost , thing like fertiliser and fuel , will actually increase by about one per cent . Now on oil , the benchmark for oil price , that 's West Texas Intermediate Crude , that 'll stay high in the near term , but over the medium term , down from the current 65 dollar a barrel down below $ 40 a barrel by 2010 . On the dollar , a moderate depreciation , around US73c for 06-07 , continue down though by 2010-11 . That 's a long way ahead , but Brian Fisher 's say perhaps around US65c for the Australian dollar . '' 
Alan Oster ( National Australia Bank ) : `` We think the Aussie dollar be probably go to get down to the level that ABARE 's talk about , except that we think it 's go to come down a lot quicker . So we expect something like 68c by this time next year . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` And that 's go to have a big impact on export ? '' 
James Martin : `` It clearly help in some sens , in the sense that it mean you 're more competitive , but if you 're on the import side , the oil price go down in US dollar , but it really do n't go down at all . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` Now I do n't think you 've get very good news about rural commodity price ? '' 
James Martin : `` Again part of this be that we have a fast fall in the currency , be that in our view , when we look at US dollar agricultural price , we 're down around ten per cent . Now part of that be beef , which have come off really high level , and we think sugar eventually will start to slow down as well . So we 're expect price to come back , and the volume broadly to offset that , so you get those different effect come through . 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` So that might be a fast impact than what ABARE 's predicting ? '' 
James Martin : `` Yes . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` You 've also be talk about continue concern about the labour shortage , particularly skilled labour ? '' 
James Martin : `` Yes , when we run our business survey we find it be very difficult , in fact , even in December this year , it 's more difficult accord to business to get suitable labour than any time , include the late 80 . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` So the concern be always , will that show up in wage ? '' 
James Martin : `` At this stage , the good news be nothing 's happen . That 's why the Reserve Bank be still talk about if we 're go to move rate it 's more likely up than down . At the end of the day , our view on rate will be , they wo n't do anything , but the wage one be critical , and if they see any sign of wage pressure start to move up , then they will pull the trigger . '' 
Matt O'Sullivan : `` Will the importation of labour be likely to hold off wage increase ? '' 
James Martin : `` To the extent that you can take some pressure off by increase the level of immigration , that clearly do help . And in the rural sector we know about difficulty of get people in to help with crop , so it help there . But at the end of the day , I think yes , there 's an element of that , but I think also the domestic part of the economy be really start to slow a bit as well , so I think unemployment 's go to go from 5.2 , 5.3 up to about 5.7 , 5.8 , and that will help . So I think the fact be that within the economy a such , you 're probably not go to have to do anything . '' 
Matthew O'Sullivan : `` Around Australia , you 're listen to a special broadcast of National Rural News from the ABARE Outlook Conference in Canberra . 
`` Well , the Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran tell the conference this morning that the NFF and the government be n't in total agreement about imported worker be a solution to the labour shortage , but certainly agree there be a problem . 
`` John Roach join u now , he 's the chief executive of vegetable grower group Ausveg , John be this a critical issue for the horticulture industry ? '' 
John Roach : `` I think not only critical to the horticulture industry , it 's critical to rural Australia , and I 'd probably go so far a to say that rural Australia 's undergoing significant change in it labour content that it will require , particularly in the next five to 10 year . '' 
Matthew O'Sullivan : `` What about these guest worker scheme ? Are they have an impact in your sector ? '' 
John Roach : `` If I look at other country , yes it do . If I look at New Zealand , part of the horticulture industry in New Zealand do use what I call cheap labour . What they 're do there be bring it it in , upskilling it there , and send it back to those country a part of their aid project , for example . We in Australia do n't have that opportunity at the moment , but if I look at the farm unit in itself , a vegetable grower , much of the innovation happen on small to medium farm business . It 's not the big end of town in vegetable production . So that area be where the innovation happen . You 'd require less labour in that , but you 'd need more specialised labour . 
Matthew O'Sullivan : `` Is there a need to protect small farmer in the future ? '' 
John Roach : `` It 's more about go to inform choice . The vegetable industry in particular will segment itself into three area . One be large production , large farm , work on lower cost . The middle section be about innovation , small farm unit be out there on the cutting edge . The last third of the industry produce about five per cent of production . I think provide inform choice for that sector , of what they actually do with their life and their farm and their asset , I think it 's really important for Australia on social content to be able to allow those people to make informed choice about whether they wish to grow , or not grow and depart . '' 
Matthew O'Sullivan : `` We 've also hear a lot over the past few year about the significant of China to the global economy , and Australian agriculture . Reporter Sally Davison have be look at the impact of China on the world economy . Sal , this week be critical in term of China 's future in the global market ? '' 
Sally Davison : `` That 's right , the National People 's Congress be release it five year plan , a blueprint for national policy maker . This will affect everything from urbanisation , migration into major city , to unemployment . But Yiping Hup from Asia CitiGroup say the energy sector will be most affect by these change . The Chinese Government have say it want to increase energy efficiency by 20 per cent in the next 20 year , by focus on environmentally friendly industry . So the international energy sector be eagerly await the release of the Chinese Government 's five-year plan . '' 

Fresh roadkill seek for WA snake study 
Roadkill be set to help scientist unlock the largely mysterious world of snake in the far north of Western Australia . 
Travellers be be ask to keep their eye out for specimen that can be study . 
David Pearson from the Department of Conservation and Land Management say venomous and whip snake from the Kimberley be of particular interest . 
`` The thing be they 're only useful when they be really fresh , '' he say . 
`` For instance if a snake be hit during the night , you get it first thing in the morning or that very night , by the time the sun get to them and bird of prey and other thing like that , they be smelly and a bit putrid - no one want to see them in their freezer and they certainly do n't make good museum specimen ! 
`` If they 've be run over a couple of time by a road train , they 're not very useful ! '' 

Swan Hill ethanol distillery work to begin 
Work will start next month on a $ 60 million ethanol distillery at Swan Hill , in Victoria 's north-west . 
Australian Ethanol have raise 12.5 million for the project , which should be on line by the end of the year . 
Chief executive Peter Anderton expect the facility to process 300,000 tonne of barley , corn , wheat and sorghum a year . 

Cattle producer lean towards small export 
Cattle producer in the Northern Territory be lead a push towards small live export vessel , despite a grow number of large ship enter the trade . 
Italian firm , Siba Ships , have enlarge it fleet with three new vessel , due to enter the trade by the end of next year . 
Steve Ellison from the Northern Territory Livestock Exporters Association say he have be surprise to see a determined swing away from large ship , with their low freight rate . 
`` We be get a bit of a backlash from producer who would prefer to see ( their cattle ) go on the small ship , '' he say . 
`` I think that a lot of the producer realise that they think those big ship be n't quite all beer and skittle . 
`` In fact , I buy some cattle a few week ago and one of the proviso be that I have to give a guarantee that they would n't go on a big ship . 

Bird flu diagnosis training step up 
The CSIRO be train Department of Agriculture staff in every state and territory to improve the nation 's ability to diagnose a bird flu outbreak . 
An avian virologist at the agency 's laboratory in Victoria , Paul Selleck , say because many Asian poultry flock be vaccinate , symptom be mask , make the virus difficult to detect . 
In Australia though , the disease should be easy to detect , because bird be n't vaccinate . 
`` In chicken we see swollen head , excessive expulsion of liquid through the mouth , '' he say . 
`` They also become depressed , and you start to see haemorrhage on the unfeathered part of the skin such a the foot . 

Promising finding in fight against pest 
Australian vineyard could one day be free of pesticide . 
Research in South Australia have find predatory insect include wasp could instead be use to eradicate pest like the brown apple moth . 
University of Adelaide PhD student Cate Paull have spend four year study pest and insect in the Coonawarra , and say the result be promise . 

Vic grower to let grape rot 
For the first time , grape will be leave to rot this harvest in one of Victoria 's premium grape grow area . 
Poor price and a lack of contract be be blame for the plight of grower in the King Valley , in the state 's north-east . 
Producing 30 per cent of the state 's top , high price variety , Wendy Batey from King Valley Vignerons , say grower be too scar to talk publicly . 
`` Well grower be really reluctant to speak out because they 're in such an incredibly vulnerable position financially , '' she say . 
`` They 've be sell , many of them have be sell grape for four year below cost and they 're basically quite frighten of jeopardise their fruit sale this year . 

Controversial Qld water charge suspend 
The Queensland Government have suspend controversial new water charge , which irrigators have be refuse to pay . 
Premier Peter Beattie will defer the introduction of the $ 4 a megalitre charge , and $ 100 annual bore licence fee , until a review be conduct . 
The fund be to be use to manage the state 's water resource , but Paul Schembri from Canegrowers say irrigators be angry at a lack of transparency . 
`` In the short run we be very outrage by the introduction of this new tax , make no mistake , '' he say . 
`` It be a brand new tax . 
`` `` I guess the issue be , how transparent be the process ? how independent be it ? 

Ministers urge to reject trucking fee hike 
Farmers be call on state and federal transport minister to reject a proposal to increase trucking charge , ahead of a vote on the new fee tomorrow . 
The National Transport Commission want registration cost for B-doubles and road train to rise by 37 per cent , and fuel tax for heavy truck to climb by 10 per cent . 
The Federal Government , along with the ACT , South Australia and Tasmania have already say they will vote against the charge . 
Ben Fargher from the National Farmers Federation , say the increase go beyond cost recovery for the trucking sector , and farmer will end up wear them . 
`` We need the most efficient freight transport task , the most efficient mode in this country and we need to look at the policy between road and rail , '' he say . 
`` Indeed the Productivity Commission have just be task with look at that . 

Oil-for-food inquiry term widen 
The Federal Government have widen the oil-for-food inquiry , to include an internal AWB investigation into the allegation that kickback be pay to Saddam Hussein . 

Cyclone Larry devastate FNQ farm 
The most powerful cyclone to cross the north Queensland coast in 20 year be continue to cause havoc a it move west . 
The core of the category 5 Cyclone Larry cross the coast near Innisfail , around 7:00am AEST , with wind speed of 290 kilometre an hour . 
Banana grower Naomi King say their property have take a heavy battering . 
`` We 've lose most of our tree , we 've lose a fair bit of the car shed , we 've lose another shed just over from our house and it look like the iron on the lime shed just over the back of the house be lift up too , '' she say . 

Farmers shoulder vegetation cost , say McGauran 
The Federal Agriculture Minister have tell a national conference that farmer be bear too much of the cost of conserve native vegetation . 
The Vegetation Futures Conference at Albury in southern New South Wales be look at how to balance conservation with production on farmland . 
More than 400 scientist , government representative and land manager be attend the four-day conference . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran throw the cat amongst the pigeon in his opening address , say that some state legislation be too focus on protection , sacrifice farm production . 
He have announce funding of $ 2 million over the next two year for pilot project to develop more flexible approach to manage native vegetation . 
The project will look at thing like incentive payment and offset . 
He have also launch a comprehensive database contain information about Australia 's native vegetation . 
Meanwhile Mr McGauran have reject suggestion the Government could buy water from irrigators to improve the health of the Murray River . 
Parliamentary secretary to the Prime Minister , Malcolm Turnbull , have float the idea to meet the target of the Living Murray program , because not enough water saving have be find . 
But Mr McGauran say it be too early to talk about enter the water market . 

Japan 's mad cow case worry cattle industry 
The Cattle Council be worry about a consumer backlash against beef in Japan , after the late outbreak of mad cow disease . 
Japan have confirm it first case of the disease in cattle specifically raise to provide meat . 
All 22 previously confirm case of the disease be in dairy cattle . 
Council President Bill Bray say Japan be our big customer for beef export , and the Japanese consumer be very conscious of food safety . 
`` It be a concern , it 's a wagyu cow that 's some 14 year old and it be the 23rd case that 's be identify in Japan , '' he say . 

Record-busting market growth expect to continue 
Analysts be predict the Australian sharemarket will continue it record growth , after it break the 5,000 benchmark yesterday , for the first time since listing in 1987 . 
Hartley 's director John Featherby , say the strength of the Australian mining and energy sector bodes well for the year 's trading . 
`` Well if you measure it by the All Ordinaries index , it 's go to be push close to 5,500 by the end of the calendar year , in my opinion , '' he say . 

NZ Govt accuse of ignore farmer 
Wool price be down , it be hard for dairy farmer to break even , and the government be interfere - it might sound familiar , but those concern be come out of New Zealand , not Australia . 
New Zealand 's Reserve Bank have cut it national growth forecast , cite a seven-year low in farm income . 
And while farm business across the ditch contribute to 15 per cent of the economy , farmer say they be be ignore by government . 
Don Nicolson , from the Federated Farmers of New Zealand , say the Government be over tax and interfering , and it be hard to make a buck . 
`` You would wonder whether they take notice of u , '' he say . 
`` We have be continually tell them the same thing for many year : we do n't need government assistance in our life . 
`` We just need the framework to operate our business to be a free and as friendly a we can have it . 

Wheat survey aim to find profitable secret 
A survey of wheat grower in Victoria 's Wimmera be under way , to try to determine what make a profitable farmer . 
Despite a good harvest this year , grower be hit hard when grain price plummet by up to $ 30 a tonne . 
Researchers be hop to find out what factor enable some farmer to make a profit , while others have to sell their crop below the cost of production . 
John Williams , from the University of Melbourne , say the result will be compare with similar data from the United States . 
`` One of the thing that I 've find over the last ten year be that grower do n't have a good grasp of their cost of production , '' he say . 

Japanese BSE case compound US beef fear 
The US beef industry fear even longer odds of recover it Japanese market , after that country 's first case of mad cow disease in beef cattle . 
US beef producer have always expect to have an uphill battle once Japan resume import from the US . 
But Japan 's 23rd confirmed BSE case , and the first in beef cattle , may cause even longer odds in that market . 
American Meat Institute spokesman John Reddington point to recent Japanese press report . 
`` It 's go to be pretty difficult battle for the United States to change consumer ' mind about the safety of our product . 
`` Our major competitor , when we get back into that market , be go to be Australia . '' 

Higher sheep price forecast amid steep demand 
The live export industry say it will be force to offer high premium to sheep producer to meet demand . 
While producer have move away from breed heavy boat sheep towards the prime lamb market , the live trade expect increased demand for mutton in Europe . 
Gary Tapscott , from the South Australian Livestock Exporters Association , say with more shipment out of the eastern state expect over the next few month , the trade will be demand merino wether come into winter . 

Veg grower urge great marketing mix 
Vegetable producer want to join force with other rural industry to try to increase sale . 
Peak grower group Ausveg be look at cross-commodity marketing , a one of the idea include in a new industry strategy . 
Chief executive , John Roach , say with increase global pressure on primary producer , the time may be right for more co-operation 
`` There be real leverage to be have with vegetable in particular co-marketing product with other rural commodity , such a seafood , such a meat , start make whole of meal solution , particularly on an export focus , '' he say . 

Calls to withdraw minister ' control over truck rego 
The rail industry want decision on truck registration cost to be take away from transport minister , after they reject a plan to increase charge on large vehicle . 
The trucking industry say it could not afford the propose 37 per cent increase in rego cost for B-doubles and road train , and a 10 per cent rise in fuel tax for heavy truck . 
But the rail industry say only 2 per cent of trucking operator will benefit . 
Brian Nye from the Australasian Railway Association say there still need to be fundamental reform of road and rail pricing . 
`` I 'm not argue that the trucking industry do n't pay , '' he say . 
`` What we 're say be that small vehicle be cross-subsidising heavy vehicle and it 's the heavy vehicle that be do the damage . 
`` So , yes the trucking industry can say 'Yes we be pay a fair amount but it 's the way the formula 's work out ' , and this be try to redress some of that . 
But the Victorian Transport Minister say the increase would have jeopardise rural business , already battle high transport cost . 
Peter Batchelor say there need to be a uniform approach to truck rego fee , and uncertainty over Federal Government funding for freight infrastructure also need to be resolve . 

Doctors warn of racial abuse in wake of Patel scandal 
Overseas trained doctor be be warn against practise in rural Australia , because they could face racist abuse from both patient and colleague . 
The Australian Doctors Trained Overseas Group say fallout have not abate , after the `` Dr Death '' case in Queensland . 
Martin Stanley , from the Rural and Remote Workforce Agencies Group , say a positive campaign about the work of overseas trained doctor be urgently need . 
`` I think there be a lack of understanding , '' he say . 
`` I think there 's an assumption that some community make , that there be doctor all over the place and it 's just a matter of pick one to come to their community . 
`` I think we all , collectively , need to keep tell some of the positive story about what overseas trained doctor be do in local community . '' 
Dr Adel Asaid train in Egypt , and have practise a a GP in the Victorian town of Elmore for the past eight year . 
But he say while get to know the local take some time , story of racism in country area be exaggerate . 
`` It be n't an easy task for me , or even for the town , but the town actually be great , like the town accept me and welcome me so that make my life much easy , '' he say . 

Growers count cost of cyclone Larry 
Far north Queensland 's horticulture industry have be almost wipe out by cyclone Larry . 
The Category 5 cyclone have cause hundred of million of dollar damage to sugar and banana crop , along with the rest of the farming sector . 
Ninety per cent of Australia 's banana come out of the Innisfail and Tully region ; at this stage most of the industry look to have be lose . 
Jan Davis from horticulture 's representative group Growcom say the damage look bad than anticipate . 
`` Avocados be in the middle of harvest and probably 70 to 80 per cent of that crop 's go . We 've get significant damage report come in from tropical fruit . Very , very serious damage right across the sector , '' she say . 
Sugar cane along the coast from Tully to Cairns also cop the blow of the cyclone , with most of the Innisfail crop which face 290 kilometre wind destroy . 
The cyclone will have huge ramification for job and local business in the affected district , which heavily rely on the two crop that use to dominate the landscape : sugar and banana . 
There have be call for the State Government to help out with compensation . 
It say it be still assess the damage . 
Those heavy loss in the far north be expect to drive the price of banana to above $ 40 a carton , or between $ 5 and $ 6 a kilo . 
But Tony Heidrich from the Australian Banana Growers Council be concern about how grower in far north Queensland will rebuild . 
`` If grower be n't make any money , they ca n't afford to keep staff above those which be essential to get the farm back into production , '' he say . 
`` And the question be as far a key people go , key employee , if you do have to let some of those go , whether they come back again . '' 
Remote cattle station in the Gulf of Carpentaria be apprehensive over what Cyclone Larry may bring to the already water-logged region . 
Stuart Zlotkowski of Wollogorang Station , say he be relieve to have turn off cattle month in advance . 
In the metric scale , the station have have around 768 millimetre of rain this month , which be by far the wet March on record and the second wettest of any month ever in about 28 year of recorded weather statistic . 

Growers vote to keep wheat export 's single desk 
Grain grower in Victoria have formally show their support for keep the single desk for wheat export . 
Almost 330 grower vote to retain the single desk , at the annual Victorian Farmers Federation Grains Conference . 
Grains group president Ian Hastings say it be a strong result . 
`` We 've get a very very clear message that people want single desk and at this point in time they be not include how or who the manager will be , '' Mr Hastings say . 
`` They want single desk marketing , which be what we 've be say all along , and at the end of the Cole inquiry be the time when we will then look at what the structure will be to ensure that we have a single-desk marketing system . '' 
Meanwhile a good outlook for crop prospect in the US have hit domestic grain price . 
Chicago wheat future have drop more than 3 per cent in the past 10 day , with rain and snow expect to help US crop . 
Leonie O'Driscoll from Agfarm marketing say the fall be be felt . 
`` Already we have see domestic end user drop their buying value by about $ 10 a tonne , '' she say . 

Analysts urge consortium to move quickly on Iraq wheat deal 
Grains industry analyst say Australia could lose a deal to supply hundred of tonne of wheat to Iraq , unless it move quickly to seal the contract . 
Media report from Baghdad say the Iraqi Grains Board be refuse to agree to the deal unless it control ship arrangement , accuse Australia of over-inflating transport cost . 
Analyst Lloyd George say deal with Iraq be not a simple process . 
`` You know those term and condition can vary from customer to customer significantly and hence the risk vary with that as well , '' Mr George say . 
`` Even in the past day or so it 's be talk about in the United States that Iraq be essentially look around for another 300,000 tonne of wheat out of the United States , which suggest they may be start to look in other direction if business have n't be conclude . '' 

Anderson urge state to stand by water initiative 
Former deputy prime minister John Anderson say the National Water Initiative be in danger of stall and the state need to recommit to it . 
Mr Anderson say the deal , to secure water for the environment and property right for farmer , be month behind schedule and he be worry it be head off target . 
He have also reject suggestion that it be time for government to buy water from farmer for the environment . 
`` Where they do want to enter the market in my view , they should do it a be agree in the case of the Living Murray , a a last resort only , '' Mr Anderson say . 
`` I 'm glad you ask the question because I think there 's a few government now and few people around the place think 'oh the easy way out of this , it 's all too hard to find the saving ' and I do n't know what 's wrong with modern government , but they 're all so reluctant to get their hand involve with infrastructure . '' 
Malcolm Turnbull , parliamentary secretary to the Prime Minister , say only half the necessary water saving have be find for Murray River environmental flow . 
Mr Turnbull say there may be no other option than buy water and he will put the idea to a Murray Darling Ministerial Council meet next month . 
He be reject suggestion that would lead to a big increase in water price . 
`` There 's this kind of implicit assumption that if government be go to participate in water market they will do so recklessly , overpay , '' Mr Turnbull say . 

UN outline farm 's threat to water 
A new United Nations report say farming be the big threat to the world 's freshwater supply . 
The report have be unveil at a World Water Forum in Mexico , and recommend an end to subsidy on pesticide and fertiliser , and realistic water pricing . 
But the forum have be tell Australian farmer be world leader , for use market force to stop water wastage and pollution . 
Mike Young from CSIRO Land and Water be at the forum and say Australia be recognise a a pioneer in tackle dwindle river flow , increase contamination and pollution and damage to fishery . 
`` I think we be very much at world 's best practice in term of innovation , '' Mr Young say . 
`` All of the discussion I have be involve in , people have be amaze at the approach that Australia be take in introduce tradeable water right , actually move very quickly to full cost recovery and often be there . 

N Qld cyclone damage hit prawn , avocado producer 
Flooding be now cause havoc in Queensland between Cairns and Townsville , in the aftermath of cyclone Larry . 
Innisfail record 289 millimetre of rain in the 24 hour to 9am AEST , with most coastal area receive more than 100 millimetre . 
The flood have devastate the region 's prawn farming industry , which supply 40 per cent of the Australian market . 
Scott Walter from the Australian Prawn Farmers Association say there be huge loss due to flood damage and loss of power . 
`` Basically we have power to run our freezer where the stock be keep , '' Mr Walter say . 
`` We 've get power that run aerator in our pond , which keep the oxygen level up to a point where the prawn be capable of basically grow and survive , so if we lose the ability to oxygenate our pond we 'll lose our crop , and if the freezer go down for too long and the seal be break , the temperature will drop and we 'll have to destroy the stock because it 'll no longer be safe for food . '' 
Cyclone Larry have also devastate avocado plantation on the Atherton Tablelands in far north Queensland , with loss estimate at up to $ 15 million . 
Just last week the region supply 80 per cent of the Australian crop . 
New South Wales grower Gordon Birch say New Zealand import be likely to fill the shortfall , until other grow region begin pick fruit . 

McCain cut hit Vic potato farmer 
Potato grower in Victoria be face a 10 per cent supply cut and low price from food processor McCain this year . 
Negotiations on this year 's contract start in the middle of last year and the federal industry and produce ombudsman have be call in to try to resolve the dispute . 
President David Myers say it be unfair , when fuel cost have go up for producer . 
`` We want a finalisation of the contract , '' he say . 

Telstra admit 3G upgrade will not fix all black spot 
Telstra have begin upgrade 5,000 mobile phone tower a it prepare to roll out a new 3G phone network early next year . 
But there be grow concern about whether mobile phone black spot will ever get network coverage , even with the 3G service . 
The technology will allow mobile phone user to access fax , email and high-speed Internet service . 
Telstra 's Michael Patterson say mobile coverage will improve with 3G , but concedes there will be black sport , particularly in more isolated area . 
`` Absolutely but at the same time all the major community above 350 people have mobile coverage at the moment , and we 're gon na be fix some of the black spot on the highway , '' he say . 
`` We 're also work with both state and federal government to see what sort of funding be available to roll out additional base station . '' 

Tas push to maintain freight subsidy 
Tasmanian farmer say they will fight to keep the state 's $ 90 million freight equalisation scheme . 
The Federal Government be review the scheme , which subsidise the cost of freight and passenger across Bass Strait . 
While Tasmania want the scheme strengthen , parliamentary secretary for finance Richard Colebeck will only say the Government remain committed to freight equalisation of some kind , 
`` It 's recognise pretty generally that the method of freighting and even operation on Bass Strait have change significantly over the last 30 year , '' Mr Colebeck say . 

Predicted egg shortage to increase price 
There be prediction of a looming national shortage of egg , despite an oversupply and all-time low price over the past six month . 
Those two factor , couple with a hot summer , have lead to bird be cull in South Australia , Victoria and New South Wales . 
Steven Todd from Southern Eggs say few bird mean few egg with price set to rise by 20 per cent . 
He say the big player be the one who will benefit . 

BOM to consider marine weather service 's viability 
The Bureau of Meteorology be review it HF radio marine weather service . 
The bureau assume responsibility for the free 24-hour service four year ago , after Telstra stop fund it . 
It service vessel operator who be a long way off shore without access to satellite technology . 
The bureau 's Vernon Carr say they to find out how relevant the $ 3 million service be . 
`` There be a number of alternative available that we 're look at , '' Mr Carr say . 
`` Again technology be advance as well and that 's where we 're look as well be to see how far advanced , particularly for mariner in the open ocean , you know how technology be help them receive this weather information . 

Major supermarket exclude from new code of conduct 
The fruit and vegetable industry be angry at a decision to exclude major supermarket from a new mandatory code of conduct . 
The code be promise by the Federal Government in 2004 to try to give grower more clout in negotiate contract with supermarket . 
But it have now decide not to include retailer Coles and Woolworths . 
Andrew Young from the wholesaler-backed , Central Markets Association , believe supermarket could end up benefit at the expense of both grower and wholesaler . 
`` Over 50 per cent of the product will be outside the scope of the code so there 's really a big question mark over whether it 's meaningful at all , particularly give that two prior government review into the code issue have both recommend that if there be to be a code it should apply to the whole retail/grocery industry , '' he say . 

Food price to soar in cyclone 's wake 
Food price could be set to soar in area of far north Queensland devastate by cyclone Larry . 
Trucks which transport fruit and vegetable from the region , usually backload with fresh produce and non-perishables from the state 's south . 
But with crop destroy , the cost of cart food into the north be expect to skyrocket . 
Les Blennerhassett from Blenners Transport say without assistance , freight cost could increase by 90 per cent . 
`` If we ca n't get freight subsidy from the Government our freight rate into north Queensland will double from next week , everything on the shelf 's go to go up , '' he say . 
`` Every food item that 's on the shelf there now from fruit and veg to ice cream back to your Wheatbix , every item that 's on there all travel by road and rail . 
`` Rail do have a percentage of the freight and might be able to travel a little bit cheap go back empty but they have cost also . '' 
Meanwhile sugar miller in north Queensland be assess damage cause by the cyclone . 
Bundaberg Sugar 's Mourilyan , Babinda , South Johnstone and Tableland mill all suffer significant damage . 

Govt wo n't allow banana import 
The Federal Government say it will not relax quarantine import restriction for banana follow the destruction of Queensland 's crop by cyclone Larry . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the current supply of local banana be expect to run out within the next few day . 
But he say reduce biosecurity check to import banana to meet the shortfall would hurt Queensland grower . 
`` We will not compromise the science to meet a short term shortage on the domestic market , '' he say . 
`` Moreover this would be the bad thing possible for the devastated banana industry that bananas come in from overseas on a faulty or hastily decide science . '' 
Banana grower at Carnarvon , in Western Australia , say they will not bow to pressure to send fruit to the eastern state to fill the gap . 
WA representative on the Australian Banana Growers Council Tom Day say they will continue to supply local market . 
`` Whilst we sympathise with the people in the east there be be some banana in New South Wales and there be still a few in Queensland , '' he say . 
`` We 've get our market in Western Australia , that 's always traditionally be our market and we 've get some very faithful buyer there and we want to stick with those people and help the east if we possibly can . 
A new report raise doubt over the ability of the National Water Initiative ( NWI ) to solve the water crisis and deliver infrastructure reform . 
But it say reform rural and urban water infrastructure could add between $ 6 billion and $ 8 billion a year to the economy . 
One year since conduct it first review of infrastructure policy , the Business Council of Australia ( BCA ) say the National Water Initiative be lack urgency and clear direction . 
The BCA found of all area review like energy and transport , only water policy do not see significant progress . 
Backing comment from former deputy prime minister John Anderson , it say the NWI be miss target , like the creation of a national water trading market and find more barrier than solution . 
The BCA 's Maria Tarrant say the organisation have give the Council of Australian Governments until the end of the year to reinvigorate the National Water Initiative and far develop water trading . 

Mission Australia highlight city-country divide 
Divisions between the wealth and health of city and country dweller be continue to grow , accord to a new report by welfare group Mission Australia . 
The report say rural Australians be less likely to finish school , more likely to die from alcohol abuse or be affect by domestic violence , or suffer mental illness . 
Anne Hampshire from Mission Australia say the concern will be take to Canberra next week along with a push for new program . 
`` The report actually have three component , identify the problem which we have , identify some of the great initiative which be happen on the ground so we make sure we can develop those further , but also we 've suggest a whole suite of recommendation , '' she say . 

Probe into low Vic commodity price 
The Federal Government be set up a taskforce to investigate the impact of low commodity price in western and north-western Victoria . 
Farmers say low grain , wool , grape and citrus price be cripple the economy of rural community . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the Government will not subsidise farmer , but will try to reduce cost burden . 
Hindmarsh mayor Darryl Argall say the taskforce will give rural community more direct contact with the Federal Goverment . 

Dairy company compete for supplier 
Competition for milk supplier be intensify between dairy company in Victoria . 
After year of dismal price , milk company Fonterra be now offer a sweetener of a 50 cent per kilogram premium to new supplier . 
Doug Chant from the Victorian Farmers Federation be happy with the high price , but he be worry the incentive will not give farmer long-term financial security . 

Woodside sign big gas deal with Japan 
Oil and gas producer Woodside have sign it big agreement for the supply of liquefied natural gas . 
The company will supply up to 2 million tonne of LNG a year to Japan from 2011 . 

Biodiesel plant open 
One of Australia 's big biodiesel plant be be open in Adelaide today . 
The be open this morning and will be capable of produce of 45 million litre of diesel each year . 
Initially this plant will be produce diesel from animal fat but it be hop it will soon be come from oil seed and the plant will be look for some 100,000 tonne of oilseed each year . 

Bio-gas plant to put cow manure to good use 
A feedlot and abattoir in southern New South Wales be plan to generate electricity from cow manure . 
Rockdale Beef at Yanco be develop a bio-gas plant , to make good use of 120,000 tonne of manure produce at the feedlot every year . 
General Manager Paul Troja say the $ 12 million plant will be one of the first of it kind in the country . 
`` The manure be collect and put into a digestor where the methane be extract , the methane be clean then put through a gas turbine which generate electricity and hot water , '' he say . 
`` The electricity be use in the plant and the hot water in term of our normal requirement in an abattoir operation . 

NT flower grower meet Games shortfall after cyclone 
Cut-flower grower in the Northern Territory have have to come to the rescue of Commonwealth Games organiser , in the wake of Cyclone Larry . 
The red and orange tropical heliconias be a centrepiece of the bouquet present to medal winner , and have be provide from both north Queensland and the Territory . 
Darwin grower like Jan Hintze have have to come up with more than 10,000 bloom after the Games order double overnight . 
`` I have to find another 1,000 flower , from Monday lunchtime to Tuesday lunchtime , which be actually quite difficult , '' she say . 
`` But however , we all get together and sure enough I do manage to get them all together and they go off on Tuesday night and they will be the bouquet today and tomorrow . 

Iraq wheat sale still on track : consortium 
The grain consortium Wheat Australia be hose down speculation it deal to sell wheat to Iraq be in trouble . 
Spokesman Rhys Ainsworth say the consortium this week make it tender submission to the Iraqi Grains Board , and have already start talk with the board . 
While he would not be draw on the content of discussion , Mr Ainsworth play down the time the deal be take . 
`` Well it 's very hard to talk about what 's normal and what 's abnormal , '' he say . 
`` I suppose , what I can confirm be that the initial offer have be make and discussion be continue . 
`` So that 's the certainly the context that Wheat Australia be proceed with at the moment . 

Moody 's review push up AWB share 
Shares in wheat exporter AWB have surge more than 20 cent after a positive review from rating agency Moody 's . 
The share price have hover at all-time low in recent week but Moody 's assessment of subsidiary company AWB Harvest Finance have improve confidence in AWB 's ability to handle risk . 
Senior financial analyst at CommSec Grant Saligari say while it be an important review , it be expect the share price will continue to fluctuate . 
`` I think this be more a reaffirmation of short-term prospect at this stage , '' he say . 
`` I think you 're go to see quite a bit of volatility until the outcome of the Cole inquiry be know and the Government 's response to that be know . '' 
Shares open trade this morning at $ 3.97 . 
Meanwhile 220 grain grower have voice their support for the single desk for wheat export at a meeting in WA 's mid-west . 
Just six farmer at the gathering in Morowa want the single desk deregulate . 
Many believe their support be not be recognise in the eastern state but David Hayes of Badgingarra say WA grower want the single desk leave alone . 
`` I think there 's a clear demonstration that Western Australian farmer be 100 per cent behind single desk , '' he say . 
They have do the wrong thing and I think that there 's go to have to be some head roll in the AWB but at the end of the day , the rank and file of the people that work for the AWB be great people and they 've get our best interest at heart . '' 

SA barley grower vote to keep single desk marketing system 
Grain grower in South Australia have vote to keep the single desk marketing system for barley . 
A total of 5,900 barley grower be send out the South Australian Farmers Federation 's barley ballot , ask grower whether they want to retain the single desk or complete deregulation . 
Only 2,000 respond . 
This come after month of debate over poor barley price which have lead to some grower demand competition for the state 's barley market . 
Fourteen hundred grower vote yes to the single desk , while 300 vote to remove it but one change have result , with 1000 grower want an independent single desk , with a similar structure to the Wheat Export Authority . 

Falling Aust dollar good news for farmer 
In some good news for farmer , the fall Australian dollar be add hundred of million of dollar to export return . 
Chief economist at Deutsche Bank Tony Meer say the dollar be at it low level in 18 month , trading at 71.5 US cent . 
He say the drop be boost return in the resource sector and there be also benefit for farm commodity . 
`` Definitely anyone who get to export , I be think resource company but also the farm sector and the good news for the farm sector be that those broad acre cropper , those people who produce thing like wheat and barley , at least they have get something to sell on those global market this time around because of the breaking of the drought , '' he say . 

Wool market fall off 
A 3 per cent fall in the US exchange this week should have lead to high wool price in Australia . 
Instead the market have fall off , due to poor , old wool be reoffered at sale this week . 
The big fall be in Fremantle , where there be a 15 cent drop-off . 
The eastern market indicator fell seven cent to 744 cent a kilo clean . 

US lawmaker urge to oppose food aid commodity plan 
US farm group be angry at a plan by the Bush administration to spend almost a quarter of it main food aid program on Australian and European commodity . 
Wheat , soy , rice and other minor crop be involve . 
The group have write to US lawmaker urge them to oppose the Bush administration 's plan to buy food aid commodity from Australia and others , close to needy area like South-East Asia . 
US Wheat Associates ' Dawn Forsythe say the proposal amount to as much a $ 305 million . 
`` Twenty-five per cent of the budget would be purchase elsewhere . Now , we have a problem with that ... with US taxpayer money go to buy competitor ' product , '' she say . 

NZ grower question Australian fire blight detection skill 
New Zealand apple grower have question the ability of Australian quarantine worker to inspect their orchard for the plant disease fire blight . 
Inspections would be carry out a part of new regulation to allow New Zealand apple import into Australia . 
Submissions on the draft regulation close next week . 
But Pipfruit New Zealand 's Peter Beaven say Australia do not have the skill to detect fire blight . 
`` The draft contemplate AQIS inspector come out to New Zealand and do work that I do n't think they be qualify to do , quite frankly , because you know they be go to be look around orchard , look for canker and so forth and they 've get no experience in do that , '' he say . 

Live export campaign to improve welfare 
Meat and Livestock Australia will fund a million dollar campaign to raise awareness of it effort to improve animal welfare , particularly in the live export trade . 
The campaign will begin in WA in a few week before be launch nationally , targetting consumer , metropolitan medium and school . 
Tim D'arcy from the Pastoralists and Graziers Association say he hop it will make the live export industry more transparent as well . 
`` You know , there be people out there who still do n't do the right thing , and we 're aware of that , '' he say . 
`` And we 're try to , through this process , try to encourage everybody , to ensure their animal welfare management be of the high order . 

Dairy farmer need for Tasmania 
Tasmania 's dairy industry have launch a recruitment drive to attract more farmer . 
The campaign have the theme `` a great place to live , a great place to dairy '' , and promote not only the sound economics of dairy farming , but the lifestyle quality of living in Tasmania . 
Dairy consultant Basil Doonan say while there have be a big influx of New Zealand farmer in the past decade , this campaign target Europeans . 
`` We do n't mind where the investment come from , we just need foreign investment , we need an injection of capital at the farm level in the Tasmanian industry , '' he say . 

Dairy industry rally behind FNQ producer 
The Queensland Dairyfarmers Organisation ( QDO ) have set up it own cyclone relief fund to provide help to farmer affect by cyclone Larry . 
The cyclone damage infrastructure , and power be still out in many dairy five day after it hit . 
Without power farmer can not milk and cow face the possibility of mastitis and go dry . 
There have be a major effort to fly in mobile milking machine , source generator and even fly in a tanker so milk that ca n't be chill can be pick up every day , otherwise it have to be pour down the drain . 
QDO president Wes Judd say farmer across the country have offer their help and any donation will be most welcome . 

Cave on standby a water rise in Kimberley 
Residents of station and community in the east Kimberley be on stand-by to evacuate a rain continue to bucket down in WA 's far north . 
Kununurra have have double it average March rainfall , with 200 millimetre over the past two day . 
Yesterday a helicopter arrive at nearby Ellenbrae Station to collect the Stanley family , although farmer Norm Stanley decide to stay on . 
`` I ca n't see anyone come to too much grief , '' he say . 
`` We 've get a big hill about a kilometre over from the homestead and I 'll shoot across there if it get too bad . 

Top End crabbers face tough time 
Commercial crabbers in the Northern Territory say the industry will be force to downsize under major new restriction . 
Thirty per cent few crab will be able to be catch under amendment to the Territory mudcrab plan and there will be tough penalty for breach catch limit . 
Chris Calogerous of Sea King Seafoods be disappoint there be no provision to buy out any of the 49 commercial licence holder . 
`` Most of u feel like we 've be kick in the gut . Our advice have be ignore and I can see how this be effectively go to put this industry under extreme pressure , '' he say . 
`` We support all the rule relate to tougher penalty but this size limit increase of 10 mm basically mean that we 're go to not be able to harvest crab in the Gulf because a large proportion of the crab there be always a small crab . 

Farmers sign up to save rare cocky 
Farmers be sign up in drove for a project which offer them cash for preserve the habitat of the Commonwealth Games mascot . 
The Federal Government will spend more than $ 1 million to try to save the last 1,000 red tail black cockatoo , find in Victoria and South Australia . 
Cockies have be see on the farm of Richard Hobbs at Clear Lake , who say protect tree serve a dual purpose . 
`` We do value the tree , we think that we can crop and have tree , '' he say . 
`` We think it increase production - protection for the livestock and probably for crop too . 

Rural job last resort for migrant : agent 
There be claim today the grow social divide between city and country be make it hard to recommend rural area to migrant . 
Attracting migrant to regional area have be tout a a solution to the skill shortage but migration agent Michael Walker say job in rural area be often the last resort for his client . 
Mr Walker from Absolute Immigration Services say there be often a lack of opportunity , infrastructure and support in country area . 
`` The infrastructure in many regional area be not sufficient enough to sustain an influx of migration , '' he say . 
`` We already know that many young people who have grow up in regional area be come into the city seek employment . 

Fears compo payment may restrict farmer ' borrowing 
Farmers who receive government-funded compensation payment be be warn they could have less leverage to borrow money from bank . 
The issue have be highlight in New South Wales , where compensation pay to grind water irrigators will be tax a income . 
Bruce Brown from Namoi Catchment Management say under the tax ruling , farmer who receive compensation for the loss of any property will see their asset base reduce . 
`` Banks would be see a loss of their loan security ratio which would obviously impact on the amount of money they be prepared to lend because they will do their credit risk rating etc on that , '' he say . 

Research focus on merino meat breeding 
The merino industry be take a stand against competition from meat sheep breed . 
While there have be plenty of study into merino wool , le be know about the sheep itself . 
A five year project have be research fertility , worm resistance , muscle and fat depth in more than 10,000 stud sheep . 
South Australian breeder Robin Schwartz say the industry 's future lie in be able to compete by offer good wool and meat characteristic . 
`` While wool price be up and down , and more down than up at the moment , everyone be keen to kick some goal with the meat breed side of the operation , '' he say . 

Emerging market may help grape grower 
An emerge grape seed oil market could help deal with the nation 's oversupply of wine grape 
The seed come from a by-product of wine production and the oil be use for eating and cooking , as well a pharmaceutical and cosmetic . 
Rocco Rombola have establish a grape seed oil extraction plant at Loxton in South Australia 's Riverland and say while it be a relatively new product in Australia , it have be use in Europe for year . 

AWB accuse of renege on wheat commitment 
Grain trader be accuse AWB of renege on a public commitment to relax the company 's power of veto over wheat export . 
They say application for hundred of thousand of tonne of wheat , include one from the consortium Wheat Australia , be hold up at the Wheat Export Authority ( WEA ) . 
It be nearly a month since Trade Minister Mark Vaile tell grain grower that AWB would relax it veto power to allow other company to export to Iraq . 
But application to export more than half a million tonne of wheat have be before the WEA for week , include a Wheat Australia bid to sell 350,000 tonne to Iraq . 
Under current legislation , AWB must give write authority to the WEA before any export application can be process . 
`` The authority must not give a bulk export consent without the prior approval in writing of AWB . I guess they 're still wait for that , '' Alick Osborne from the Grain Exporters Association say . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran be confident AWB will stand by it word . 
`` AWB have commit to the Government and to wheat grower to waive it veto power , they will honour that commitment , '' he say . 

Regional worker first to feel impact of IR change : union 
Unions say regional Australia will be the first to feel the effect of the Federal Government 's new industrial relation law . 
The change come into force today , mean employer have more power when negotiate contract with worker . 
Dr Chris Briggs from the Workplace Research Centre at Sydney University believe regional worker will see major change . 
`` These type of law be trialled in Victoria in the mid-90s under the Kennett government and what it find be that ... thing do n't change all that much in the middle of the capital city but where they change be in regional area where you have three time a many low pay job , particularly in job like retail , construction and hospitality , so it be likely that regional area will feel the effect of this , '' he say . 
But farmer and other regional business say the change will lead to more job in regional Australia and great flexibility for worker and employer . 
Only farm that be incorporate or in Victoria will be able to negotiate under the new law but the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say it will be encourage farmer to incorporate so they can access the change . 
The NFF 's Denita Wawn say over time the new law will lead to good relation between employer and employee . 

Farmers expect condition to worsen 
Confidence in rural Australia remain weak , with more farmer expect condition to worsen over the next 12 month . 
The late quarterly rural confidence survey from Rabobank have find only a quarter of primary producer expect the agricultural economy to improve . 
Rabobank 's Neil Dobbin say farmer be particularly cautious in the lead-up to the winter cropping system , with many farmer in the eastern state wait for rain . 
`` Across Australia the confidence be weak . It 's mainly what they 're think about in the future , what they see commodity price and input cost , '' he say . 

Beef producer set for wagyu cattle production 
Australia 's big beef producer be set to take over the world 's large breeder of wagyu cattle . 
Wagyu beef be renowned for it marbling and be highly prize in the Japanese market . 
The Australian Agricultural Company have buy a bull herd belong to Ballarat-based Westholme Wagyu , regard a the world 's best outside Japan . 
Managing director Don Mackay say the company hop to buy Westholme 's cow and calf , embryo and semen later this year . 
`` You produce a high quality beef , you produce beef product that be worth considerably more value , '' he say . 
`` Clearly you 've get a high cost of production and the animal that we fee in our feedlot today be generally on feed for about a year but those animal be worth a lot of money . 
`` As long a you get the right performance from the right genetics . 

Tasmanian wine grape in short supply 
While the mainland deal with a massive oversupply of wine grape , Tasmania do not have enough for this year 's vintage , 
The island state be short around 500 tonne of grape , mainly those use to make sparkling wine . 
The shortage mean grower be receive a good price for premium fruit and winemaker Andrew Pirie say there be no plan to import more fruit . 
`` If you examine why Tasmania be now , let 's say isolated and good position it 's because we 've stick with a strong Tasmanian regional branding , '' he say . 
`` For 20 year now we 've focus on 100 per cent Tasmanian content and that now set u apart from the south-east Australian blend which be become the wine that 's in oversupply , so regionality have be our saviour . '' 
Meanwhile a new national task force will work to find niche global market for Australian wine . 
The 13 member `` new direction '' group will also try to build strong tie between producer and retailer , exporter and government . 
It be part of a bid to reduce the wine surplus . 
And in another development , one company be introduce tetra paks for wine , the same a those use for long-life milk and fruit juice . 
Already use in Canada , a business in Victoria 's Sunraysia district will become the first company in the southern hemisphere to install the technology . 
Ken Henderson from Best Bottlers say the taste of the wine will not change . 
`` It 's virtually unbreakable , it can go into place where glass be not normally allow in such a sport venue , beach , '' he say . 

Flooding hit northern WA town 
A tropical low hovering over the east Kimberley have continue to dump huge fall of rain over the region . 
Wyndham receive 560 millimetre over the weekend , cause major flooding and force road closure . 
Graeme Down from the Fire and Emergency Services Authority of Western Australia say flooding in the low Ord River be reportedly the big ever see . 
`` The local manager for SES here advise me that he pull his pump up to one and a half metre above what he think be the high he have ever see and his pump go under again , '' Mr Down say . 
`` So I think there 's be a huge volume of water that the Water Corp be tell u , before the water have really come down out of the diversion dam that they be let 580 cubic metre per second . '' 

Rain set back fight against noxious weed 
While pastoralists in Western Australia 's Pilbara region be rapt with the wet start to the year , record rainfall have result in a grow problem with noxious weed . 
Mesquite be a weed with spiny thorn and cover 150,000 hectare of graze land west of Karratha . 
Linda Anderson from the Pilbara Mesquite Management Committee say the rain have put the fight against the weed back a number of year . 
`` It 's now go to germinate a lot of the seed bank that we think that be there that we have n't see germinate in probably the last six or seven year when we have n't have rain , '' she say . 

Spiralling whitefly find in Darwin backyard 
Efforts have begin to control a new pest specie find in the Northern Territory . 
Spiralling whitefly be previously restrict to Queensland but have now be discover in a Darwin backyard . 
The pest can reduce production in plant like the mango , papaya and guava but Stuart Smith from the Department of Primary Industries say it can be control use a natural parasite . 
`` This be actually an extremely effective parasite , '' he say . 
`` It be classical biocontrol in that the parasite really knock the pest down by 80 to 90 or 95 per cent but there be just enough to survive to maintain the parasite as well a the pest population . 
`` But almost always in very low population and not enough to be damage . '' 

Farmers set to show off produce 
Preparations be well under way for this year 's Sydney Royal Easter Show . 
And farmer on the state 's far south cost be get ready to show off their produce , include Noel Watson , from Bega . 
He be pick giant pumpkin and say it take more manpower than you might think . 
`` More than we get here . I 'll be bring the tractor down here directly to pick it up , I think that one up there be probably the big I have grow , it could be pull 200 kilo , '' he say . 

Chinese uranium deal could prompt new mining boom 
Australia could be set for a new mining boom with China set to sign an agreement to explore for uranium . 
China be also a step closer to buy more uranium from Australia , to fee it new breed of nuclear power plant . 
Mining analyst Warren Edney , from ABN Amro , expect Chinese company to seek joint venture rather than stake their own claim . 
`` They will be able to contract sale to the Chinese nuclear power generator and potentially we may even see BHP 's Olympic Dam sell to the Chinese , '' Mr Edney say . 
`` I do n't think that we will see massive export because there be not necessarily a lot of free uranium which be why the price have go up for yellow cake . 

Woodside to spend billion on Vincent oil field 
Australia 's large oil company will spend a billion dollar develop the Vincent oil field , off the coast of Exmouth , in north-western Western Australia . 
Vincent will produce about a fifth of Woodside Petroleum 's annual oil production by the end of 2008 . 
Hartley 's analyst Rob Brierley say Woodside have lock in oil production from Vincent for high than the current price of crude oil . 
`` It 's a decent oil field , '' he say . 
`` They 've manage to hedge about 30 per cent of their production . Where they 've get oil price lock in between $ 55 a barrel and $ 75 a barrel that 's pretty healthy margin stuff . '' 

Record flood hit gulf country 
Graziers in Queensland 's gulf country be still try to assess damage cause by record flood . 
Heavy rain from ex-tropical cyclone Larry have cause both the Leichhardt and Alexandra Rivers to burst their bank , cover up to 40 kilometre . 
There have also be report of shark spot near a homestead , 80 kilometre inland from the Gulf of Carpentaria . 
Further south , Michael Crisp from Lorraine Station , say more than 250 millimetre of rain have flood area he never believe would go under . 
`` Part of our farm , our irrigated farm have be really heavily damage , '' he say . 
`` There be up to 900 acre of corn sown and 60 or 70 acre of sorghum that have about three or four foot of water go over it and appear to be bugger altogether . '' 
But in sharp contrast , cattle be perish in Queensland 's far south-west , because it have be so dry . 

SA dam fill for first time in decade 
There have be good rain across South Australia over the past few day , boost soil moisture level . 
One farmer say his dam have fill for the first time in a decade , with more than a hundred millimetre of rain fall . 
Julian Baillie near Tumby Bay on the Eyre Peninsula say it have come a a surprise . 
`` I sort of do a lap around earlier in the day and a lot of them which have n't have any water in them for the best part of 10 year or even more some of them , '' Mr Baillie say . 

Blair attack EU trade policy 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair have use an address to the Australian Parliament to attack the European Union 's protectionist trade policy on farm good . 
Mr Blair say despite some gain in trade reform , a tide of protectionist sentiment be still flow around the world . 
The PM have also single out the closed trade policy of the United States and Japan , say the future of all trade negotiation hinge on the current Doha round of talk . 
`` If we ca n't put a decent trade round in place , when it be so plain that our long-term national interest and the wide interest of the world demand it , this will be a failure with multiple consequence , all of them adverse , '' Mr Blair say . 

AWB pool return up 
To the grain market and wheat exporter AWB have lift it expected pool return for the 2006-07 season by $ 5 a tonne . 
It be also expect an increase in return for 2004-05 because of a low Aussie dollar . 
The National Party want to set target for end the flow of urban waste water into the ocean and increase the use of recycled water in both city and rural area . 
The Nationals research arm , the Page Research Centre , will conduct a study into recycled water to see if reused water could help attract and keep industry to regional centre . 
Chair of the study , Queensland Nationals president , Bruce Scott say there need to be great debate on community attitude to recycle water . 
`` What I do know be that there be so many community that be on water restriction almost year round now and there be community in regional area that be unable to attract new industry to those town because they do n't have any water to offer those industry , '' Mr Scott say . 

Mixed response to wool contract system 
A new contract selling system for superfine wool have have a mixed response from producer at the first of a series of nationwide meeting . 
Under the plan , specific fibre would be supply to customer through direct marketing , rather than the auction system . 
Frank O'Connor , from the Australian Super Fine Wool Growers Association , say he be not confident the plan will get the support or the half million dollar it need to get off the ground . 
`` Not at all , but I think that 's the challenge ahead of u , '' Mr O'Connor say . 

Electronic nose could solve sheep industry woe 
A small grey box could be the key to reduce fly strike , one of the sheep industry 's big health problem . 
The electronic nose be be trialed by the Sheep Cooperative Research Centre at Armidale , in New South Wales . 
It detect the stench of blowfly maggot in sheep near a watering point and send a signal back to the farm 's computer . 
Dr Ian Colditz say , if successful , the e-nose could help the industry save more than $ 160 million a year . 
`` The device work by have some electronic sensor that be pick up chemical that be part of an odour and that create an electrical signal that can be pick up by a computer and could be relay to the farm office , '' Dr Colditz say . 

Milk price increase anger WA farmer 
Western Australian dairy farmer be angry at milk price increase announce by dairy company Fonterra , because they say they be not enough . 
Fonterra own the state 's big milk processor , Peter and Brownes ( PB ) . 
Farmers say the increase of 1.6 cent per litre , as well a an extra two cent a litre for production be too little , too late . 
Northcliffe farmer Alan Walker say farmer should demand a fair price . 
`` I would like PB supplier to all to send a letter there , just to say how they 've be treat , '' he say . 
`` The way to look at it be if only five people send a letter over there , then we may as well get back to work because nobody 's worried . 
`` But if 105 people send a letter over there , I think the Fonterra board would have to look at that quite seriously and come back and renegotiate this situation . '' 

Cow excema outbreak pose threat 
There have be an outbreak of potentially deadly facial excema in several cow herd in eastern Victoria . 
Sunburn on teat be the first sign of the disease , which be cause by fungal toxin in damp pasture . 
Gippsland vet Jack Winterbottom say if leave untreated there could be a major outbreak . 
`` We 'd have dead cow , at the very least you 'd have cow that would be very hard to manage in term of be irritable perhaps not want to be milk , be very reluctant to have unit put on teat , '' he say . 

Pork give a health lift 
Researchers in the United States have find a new way for human to take omega 3 oil , by eat pork or bacon . 
While vitamin-enriched plant-based food have be around for year , the researcher have now breed pig , which produce the fatty acid normally only find in fish . 
Professor Randall Prather from the University of Missouri say he be confident the technology will not have the same problem a clone procedure previously use in sheep . 
`` Well we use the cloning procedure so the procedure be the same , and yes sometimes you do get some animal that be n't perfectly normal , '' he say . 
`` What you saw with the sheep in the UK be the first generation , and when they have offspring the offspring be normal . 

Sniffer dog to hunt cane toad 
Sniffer dog train to smell out cane toad will soon be introduce in north-west Australia . 
Tenders have be call by Western Australia 's Department of Conservation and Land Management for canine training . 
The department be look for a hardy dog to withstand the tropical condition and regional manager Gae Mckay say it will be trialed in the scrub this dry season . 
`` Obviously it have to be a dog that 's trainable and in particular with the cane toads we want to make it a field ready dog , so it 's not just a matter of sit sniff luggage and so forth , '' she say . 

Vaile confident of Iraq wheat deal 
Trade Minister Mark Vaile say an important deal to sell wheat to Iraq could be complete as early a this week . 
The Iraqi Grains Board tell reporter overnight it have sign a contract to buy 500,000 tonne of wheat at $ US190 a tonne or around $ US130 million in total . 
But the consortium deal with Iraq , Wheat Australia be not confirm detail of the deal or that the Iraqi Grains Board have sign a contract . 
Mr Vaile say condition be still to be sort through , but he believe the report figure be close to the mark . 
`` I understand it be get close , the negotiation be get close to conclusion but there be still a number of issue leave to be resolve , '' Mr Vaile say , 
`` I 'm also aware that what be be negotiate be a contract for around 500,000 tonne of Australian wheat but not be involve at the centre of negotiation I ca n't confirm yet that that have be conclude . '' 
Grains market analyst Lloyd George say if the Iraq contract go ahead , it will be a big increase on the tonnage originally propose . 
But he say the price reportedly agree to by Iraq , cast some doubt over the deal . 

WA prepares for cyclone Glenda 
Western Australia 's Pilbara region be brace for severe wind and heavy rainfall a cyclone Glenda track down the coast . 
The cyclone have be upgrade to category five and be north of Port Hedland , with warning of wind gust up to 200 kilometre an hour . 
Weather forecaster Gavin Edmonds say by late tomorrow or Friday morning cyclone Glenda will be very close to the Pilbara coast . 
`` It be a very large system , one of the strong cyclone we have see off our Australian coast line , '' Mr Edmonds say . 
`` The estimate wind gust in near the centre be up to 300 kilometre an hour , exactly the same a Larry be prior to it approach the coast line . 

Gulf grazier appeal for assistance a floodwaters rise 
Graziers in Queensland 's north-western Gulf country want more state help for family affect by the bad flooding in 100 year . 
Authorities fear the damage bill will run to million of dollar after heavy rainfall in the wake of cylone Larry . 
Bill Olive from Cliffdale Station say he have nearly 70 millimetre of water flow through his house and expect significant stock loss . 
`` I do hope that they do something to help a lot of people , especially people who be work in the area and a lot of the grazier , '' Mr Olive say . 

CSIRO work with grain farmer on harvest prediction 
The CSIRO hop new research will give graingrowers an idea of what the season will be like six month in advance . 
At the moment the Bureau of Meteorology can only give a three month outlook . 
Peter McIntosh , from Marine and Atmospheric Research in Hobart , say they be a step closer to help farmer make more accurate decision in the lead up to harvest . 
`` What we 'd really like to be able to do be to tell the farmer whether the climate condition in the come six month would be really good for grow or not , '' Mr McIntosh say . 

DPI find exotic tomato virus in SE Qld 
Queensland official have confirm an outbreak of an exotic virus in tomato crop near Brisbane . 
Yellow leaf curl virus have never before be find in Australia and have the potential to significantly cut production . 
Chris Adriaansen , from the Department of Primary Industries , say up to 40 small farm could be affect , but say seedling nursery that supply grower in other part of the state be so far clear . 
`` Yellow leaf curl be quite a serious virus of tomato , '' Mr Adriaansen say . 
`` In other part of the world where it have attack before it 's be responsible for very significant loss in some case up to 100 per cent . 

Resource industry struggle to find worker 
Mining and resource company be start to face staff shortage a the job boom in rural Australia continue . 
A new report say the demand for good staff be make it hard to find and retain skilled worker , and it 's go to get bad . 
Andrew Staite from Hudson Employment say the fall dollar and growth in China will continue to cause problem . 
`` It be good news but be also start to now present lot of organisation with difficulty because the difficulty in attract skilled worker , into certainly Western Australia and Queensland , be get great every day . 

Mining boom apparent at NT conference 
The boom in the resource sector have be reflect in a record turn-out at this year 's Northern Territory mining conference . 
About 200 executive from around Australia have be learn more about potential mineral and metal discovery in the Territory . 
And most agree that company be step up exploration a they look to cash in on strong commodity price . 
`` I 'm Peter Robinson I 'm a consultant I 'm up here for URANEX , Uranium Exploration Group , people be start to focus here a lot and the more they focus the more they find and the more they find the more they focus . '' 
`` John Thevissen from Mincor Resources , because we 're base in Western Australia this be our first time in the Northern Territory , we 've apply for ground in the Northern Territory to look for base metal copper , lead , zinc and silver . '' 

Push for licence review after trawl company go under 
Darwin 's prawn trawl fleet have be cut almost in half with the demise of a major company . 
Austfish have be place in receivership with high operating cost , cheap import and season limit believe to be responsible . 
It be expect most of the company 's 12 boat will be withdraw from the fleet along with those of a small operator , who have voluntarily enter administration . 
David Carter of Newfishing Australia be call on the Commonwealth Government to urgently buy back licence . 
`` We expect in the next couple of week , the Department of Agriculture , Fisheries and Forestry will invite all operator in the northern prawn fishery to tender their right , that will be in the form of a buy back , '' Mr Carter say . 

Residue concern open up Japanese hay market 
Concern over residue find in hay export from the United States to Japan be open up new market for Australian farmer . 
The hay export company Johnson Asahi want more farmer to grow oaten hay for the Japanese market , to capitalise on Australia 's clean , green image . 
Spokesman Anthony Chapman say it be not yet clear what the residue find in the US hay be . 

Flooded market make life tough for citrus grower 
Citrus grower say their outlook be go from bad to worse . 
Growers say a large crop , a flood of cheap import juice concentrate and shrink export market be prevent many from sell their fruit . 
The summer crop be be dump in southern New South Wales , with grower angry at an offer of $ 80 a tonne for their fruit . 
Frank Battistel from Riverina Citrus say he be not confident about the future . 
`` I know quite a few property that have turn off water to their tree , they just ca n't continue to lose profit every year like that and they need to make a decision to either keep go and lose money or just get out of the industry . '' 
But citrus grower in the west believe China could be their salvation . 
It have take more than five year for the Chinese to approve Australian fruit import , which will largely come from the eastern state . 
WA orchardist Mark Scott say that will mean less fruit send west . 
`` We compete against import from those state here in WA every day and so that the take fruit out from their market will mean less competition here in WA , '' Mr Scott say . 

European winter hit global poppy industry 
The global poppy crop have shrink , with the estimate surplus also half the size of this time last year . 
An exceptionally cold European winter and small planting have cause the drop . 
Lindley Chopping , from the Tasmanian Poppy Growers Association , say the worldwide glut have previously equal two and a half year 's supply of opiate . 
`` It 's down to about one and half year supply , '' she say . 

Tough time for SA potato farmer 
South Australian potato grower be face a poor harvest , with below average yield and low price . 
Growers say there 's be an oversupply of potato for the past three season , and there 's no relief in sight . 
Greg Rodert who grow potato for the fresh market in Bordertown , say the below cost of production price have force many grower to cut back on the amount they produce . 
'We 're down in our planting generally through lack of finance I suppose you might say , '' Mr Rodert say . 

Jail threat for farmer employ illegal worker 
Farmers and business operator who knowingly or recklessly employ illegal worker could go to jail under new law announce by the Federal Government . 
Immigration Minister Amanda Vanstone say there be around 46,000 overstayers in Australia , many work illegally to support their stay . 
But Senator Vanstone say only employer and labour supplier who deliberately assist or exploit illegal worker need to fear the law . 
Farmers have be the target of Immigration Department raid , especially fruit and vegetable grower who often struggle to find enough seasonal labour to pick crop . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say very few grower deliberately employ illegal worker . 
And the NFF 's Denita Wawn say there be protection in the law for farmer who unwittingly employ illegals . 

Fuel price set to rise 
Fuel price be set to hit last year 's record high . 
The price of both petrol and diesel be up in many part of the country , blame on the rise price of crude oil and the fall value of the dollar . 
But Geoff Trotter from Fuel Track say traditionally fuel price be at their high at Easter and it be not good news this year . 

Glenda head toward Pilbara coast 
Western Australian mining community be on red alert a tropical cyclone Glenda approach the Pilbara coast . 
The industry have come to a standstill a it prepare for gale force wind and possible flooding from the category 4 cyclone . 
Iron ore boat which be load in the Dampier Port have be send out to sea to try to avoid the path of the cyclone . 
Harbour master Vic Justice say inside the port all the berth be empty and equipment have be tie down . 
`` The vessel at the various terminal a they complete load they sail to put out to sea and get sufficient sea room to ride out the cyclone , '' he say . 

Cyclone recovery expect to take month 
In far north Queensland and the Gulf country , community be still try to come to term with the impact of cyclone Larry . 
The community have donate $ 10 million to help but the recovery will take month , if not year . 
Cyclone Larry be say to have cost 4,000 job , many of them on farm and there be a concern young people will exodus the region in search of work . 
AgForce have express concern that flood affect grazier may not be able to access assistance if it be means-tested because of the increase in property valuation . 
The Bundaberg Sugar Company will not open it Mourilyan mill south of Innisfail for this year 's cane crush , say Larry have drastically reduce the harvest forecast . 
Cane will be divert to other mill and farmer call for assistance to remove tree and debris from the orchard have be tell by cyclone recovery task force coordinator General Peter Cosgrove that the Army will help if they put up a strong enough case . 
`` I would like those people who be suffer those frustration and wonder if they can get urgent assistance to refer it to the incident management centre in Innisfail , '' he say . 
Meanwhile cyclone Larry be be blame for a temporary shortage of fish in Victorian market . 
Peter Clarke from the Lakes Entrance Fishermen 's Co-op say there have be rough weather since the cyclone hit Queensland last week . 
Mr Clarke say with wind of more than 30 knot , small trawler be stay in port more day a week than usual . 

More professional choose part-time work in regional area 
New figure show balance work and family be begin to bite in rural profession already short of staff . 
Research by the Australian Rural and Remote Workforce Agencies show doctor , vet and teacher be increasingly choose to work part-time . 
Almost 40 per cent of country GPs work half a full-time shift . 
But spokeswoman Martina Stanley say it can be a positive in attract professional to country area . 
`` We 're try to achieve a system whereby we can support them so that they do n't have to work the way that doctor do once upon a time , '' she say . 
`` The impact be felt more significantly in rural area because traditionally rural doctor have work longer hour on average than metropolitan doctor . 
The Nationals want more safeguard to protect the diversity of regional news service before they will support medium ownership change . 
The Federal Government want to let medium owner operate across radio , television and print , lead to fear of consolidation in rural area . 
But Nationals leader Mark Vaile say business must be protect from increase advertising cost , while community group must have access to locally-based newsroom . 

McCain , potato grower settle price row 
After nine month , Victorian potato grower have finally reach a price agreement with food processor McCain . 
The company have be offer low price , which farmer say would make the industry unviable . 
The McCain Growers Group say neither farmer nor the company be happy with the deal because there be compromise on both side . 
Chief executive Tony Pitt say grower have accept $ 2.75 a tonne less than last year 's price . 
`` There be a price now that will operate now for 2006 delivery and also for 2007 and that price will be $ 227.25 , '' he say . 

Potato grower to maintain crop production 
Tasmanian potato grower have welcome new crop contract from the processor , Simplot and now expect to maintain crop production at recent level . 
Last year Simplot tell grower there would be price and volume cut when McDonald 's award a major french fry contract to New Zealand grower . 
But Dennis Leonard from the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association say the situation have improve . 
`` Simplot get on their front foot and go out and chase down some new market , which have be of benefit to a lot of grower in the State , '' he say . 

Highway upgrade to improve flood prone section 
The Federal Government have announce plan to improve road train access between central Australia and Queensland . 
A $ 2 million upgrade will improve a flood prone section of the Plenty Highway , which link Alice Springs to cattle market in the east . 
But there be no plan to seal the road , which some road train refuse to use . 
Central Australian pastoralist Dick Cadzow say it be a good start but more be need . 
`` Any improvement that they do to that road be a big help , '' he say . 
`` I can give you an instance here , six deck come down the other day , we could not get over 30 kilometre an hour . 

Levy to pay for rail upgrade anger grain grower 
Farmers on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula be angry at a propose grain levy to pay for a regional rail upgrade . 
Up to $ 40 million will be spend upgrading road and rail , and farmer be be ask to contribute $ 2 million . 
The Regional Development Board say dollar-for-dollar federal funding could be jeopardise if farmer do not support the 50 cent per tonne levy . 
While there have be some support , most attend a grain grower forum at Cummins object to it . 
`` I just think we 're be con , '' one farmer say . 
`` The buck stop at the farmer 's gate and we 're regard a a bit of a cash cow . 
`` Everytime they want money they seem to think 'oh well we 'll just whack a levy on for a while ' . '' 

Salinity threaten Barossa Valley : expert 
An Adelaide professor say one of Australia 's most renowned grape grow region could be infest with salt in 10 year . 
A professor in meteorology at Flinders University , Peter Schwedtferger , say grape grower need to minimise irrigation in the Barossa Valley . 
He say saline water be be pip from local reservoir , which be already cause problem . 
`` If the Barossa be over irrigate with this relatively saline water that 's currently be use , the Barossa 's life be go to be limit , '' he say . 
`` Once the really serious saline infestation occur it 's go to be too late . '' 
But one of the Barossa 's big grape grower , Ed Schild , say salinity be not a problem and estimate only half a hectare be affect by salt . 

Cattle station sell for nearly $ 40m 
A Kimberley cattle station have sell in what be believe to be one of the region 's big sale . 
A WA agricultural company have hand over almost $ 40 million for the historic Moola Bulla Station , it 35,000 head of cattle and 300 work horse . 

Radical change to wheat export system may cost million 
The Grains Council say make radical change to the wheat export system before this season 's harvest could cost the industry half a billion dollar . 
Ahead of release a blueprint on the future of the single desk next week , the Grains Council say it will be call for AWB to retain control of sell this season 's harvest . 
The council 's David Ginns say despite the obvious concern over AWB , it be still the best company to manage Australia 's wheat export in the near term . 
`` It 's not just something you can say 'ok let 's make a change tomorrow ' , '' he say . 
The council say AWB and other trader have invest million of dollar base on AWB 's control of the pool and any sudden change will hurt grower . 
Mr Ginns have also angrily reject a report suggest grower want this year 's harvest underwritten to the tune of a billion dollar by the Federal Government . 

US reach agreement with Japan to reopen beef market 
US Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) official say they have reach an agreement with Japan on step to reopen that country 's beef market . 
Imports of US beef be suspend in January after a shipment of veal be find to include bone material prohibit by the Japanese . 
USDA act under-secretary Chuck Lambert tell a Senate panel his team have answer Tokyo 's remain question about January 's foul-up at a New York veal plant and set in motion step to resume beef trade , start with a plant safety checklist . 
`` Once that take place , we will have people in the plant and do those verification audit , just as fast a we can , '' he say . 
`` That probably will take in the neighbourhood of a week to 10 day , to two week . 
`` And then , the next challenge will be to get the auditings from Japan in , to do the verification visit . '' 
And Mr Lambert say Tokyo have agree to do outreach with Japanese consumer to outline the change and reassure them of the safety of US beef - a significant turnaround if true . 
Meanwhile beef from the United States be be sell at a 20 per cent discount into Australia 's fourth big market , Taiwan . 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) say beef sale from Australia be not be affect and do not think the Americans be likely to try the same tactic in the much big Japanese market . 
Tim Kelf from MLA say food quality and safety be likely to be the issue in Japan , not the price . 
`` The retailer be be very cautious about just jump back into American product , the Japanese be not go to rush back to American product , '' he say . 
`` I would n't necessarily have agree with that 12 month ago but I think that this time the Japanese consumer from my previous experience many year ago be fairly twitchy . 

Govt clear way for Snowy Hydro sale 
There have be heat debate in Federal Parliament , with the Government clear the way to sell it 13 per cent share of the Snowy Hydro Electricity Scheme . 
The Government and Opposition support the sale but the Nationals ' Kay Hull and independent oppose it , say privatisation could harm irrigator water entitlement and environmental flow . 
Member for New England Tony Windsor say the Government have rush through the sale motion without enough public consultation . 
`` There be so many unknown in term of the Murray Darling system that this be not the time to place into private hand an instrumentality that can have an impact on environmental and water entitlement need of that system , '' he say . 

Pilbara escape major cyclone damage 
Western Australia 's Pilbara region have escape major damage from cyclone Glenda despite the category 4 storm reach speed of 180 kilometre an hour . 
The cyclone cross the coast last night at Mardie Station , a cattle property 100 kilometres west of Karratha . 
After endure five hour of deafen wind , Mardie pastoralist Richard Climas now have a big clean job up on his hand . 
`` There 's a bit of carnage around , we 've get door off shed . A big shed door , they 're hangar door so they 're pretty big door and one of them come loose and we happen to be look out the window and see it go fly past , '' he say . 
`` And get a few of the solar panel have blow over actually bend the 50 millimetre square steel , just bend it like toothpick , so get a bit of work this morning . '' 
Big rainfall from cyclone Glenda be expect to increase the threat of locust plague in WA . 
Entomologist Kevin Waldon say there be already a large number of locust across the State 's agricultural region . 
He be warn farmer to be vigilant because there be a risk that locust will survive until the beginning of seed . 
`` Given the green condition we 've get now , I expect the locust will survive at least five to six week , '' he say . 

Brisbane company to take majority stake in US ethanol producer 
A Brisbane-based company will take up a 60 per cent stake in the United States ' big farmer-owned ethanol producer . 
Farmer member of Midwest Grain Processors in Iowa vote to support Global Ethanol 's bid this morning . 
David Nelson from Midwest Grain Processors say the deal will lead to a massive expansion of ethanol production both in the US and Australia . 

More incentive need to biofuel take-up 
A sustainable energy expert say there be not enough incentive for country people to start use biofuels . 
While 75 per cent of the world 's renewable energy project be base in the country , Matthew Rosser from WA 's Sustainable Energy Association say it be cheap for farmer to buy diesel under the current tax system . 
He say the demand for biofuels will come from city consumer , who do not get fuel exemption . 
`` For the agriculture sector , the incentive to move towards biofuels be n't as strong a what it would be for consumer within the metropolitan area , '' he say . 

Mixed reaction to airport ID card 
Security at regional airport be be step up from today with the introduction of compulsory identification card for all staff . 
All airport worker from pilot to cleaner will need clearance from ASIO , the Department of Immigration and the Federal Police . 
But not everyone be happy . 
Sonja Mitchell from aviation company Sling Air , in the far north of Western Australia , say the card be a huge cost and it be difficult to justify the security benefit , 
`` All it mean really be extra cost , It have no obvious safety or security benefit at all , especially in a town like Kununurra , '' she say . 
`` We do n't have fence around the airport perimeter , there be fence up to a point where the jet in at the airport terminal , the rest be just the same a usual . It 's only an added cost of $ 180 per staff member that need to go airside . '' 

Fruit export to Taiwan set to resume 
The Federal Government say table grape and citrus export to Taiwan be set to resume . 
The trade be halt at the start of the year because of Taiwanese concern about Queensland fruit fly . 

Growers reject late NZ apple bid 
Apple and pear grower have reject New Zealand 's late bid to export apple to Australia . 
Submissions close yesterday on a new draft risk import analysis which would allow New Zealand apples into the country . 
But grower like Tom Quirke from Loxton , in South Australia , say the risk of the disease fireblight be still too great . 
`` The last thing we need be to have something far to cause an industry to become unviable and that 's exactly what would happen if New Zealand apples arrive in Australia , '' he say . 
`` It 's not if we get fire blight but when we get fire blight . It 's too much of a risk . We could never support that . '' 

Wool market fall 
The wool market have again fall away due to the quality of wool on offer at sale this week . 
The eastern market indicator drop six cent , to finish at 738 cent a kilogram clean . 

New mulesing alternative may help make lambs fatter 
Australian Wool Innovation say alternative mulesing method be help lamb to gain weight faster . 
Mulesing involves remove a fold of skin around the breach area , and have be targetted by animal welfare group a inhumane . 
AWI have be trialling a clip and an injection system , which remove wool from the breach and tail of lamb . 
Spokesman Scott Williams say lamb with the clip grow to 26 kilo , while the mulesed lamb grow to 24 kilo , but he be warn grower about get too excite . 
`` The grower we 're work with recognise that we 're in the research and development phase , '' he say . 

Shearing course target keen teen 
Teenagers in Victoria be be give a taste of life in the shearing shed , a the industry try to save thousand of dollar on wasted training . 
Woolgrower levy have fund the course , which be design to attract the best novice shearer , and stop trainee drop out once they discover they do not like the work . 

Town to feel impact of worker ' sacking , say union 
The sacking of 29 worker at an abattoir at Cowra in central western New South Wales be fuel debate over the Federal Government 's new workplace relation law . 
Unions say the worker have be tell they can apply for 20 new position , with a $ 200 a week pay cut . 
Charlie Donzow from the Meat Industry Employees Union say the whole town will feel the impact . 
`` By reduce worker ' income , it mean that it reduce the overall expenditure within the immediate town and area so that do have a flow-on effect to the overall town economy , '' he say . 
`` Now the new Workchoices legislation unfortunately allow company to take this position because they can simply claim it 's because of operational reason . '' 

Govt urge to take it time negotiate China FTA 
Farmers be warn the Federal Government to take it time negotiate a free trade deal with China after a push by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao to accelerate talk . 
China 's demand for Australian farm produce have triple in the past decade and be now worth more than $ 3 billion to local farmer . 
Premier Wen be in Canberra to among other thing push the free trade negotiation forward . 
But Ian James from vegetable grower group Ausveg be warn slow and steady could be good approach . 
`` Our concern would be that in the past that basically Australian agriculture probably have n't do as well a what most people would have expect , '' he say . 
National Farmers Federation president Peter Corish say farmer want a deal soon but not at the expense of a complete agreement which include farm good . 
`` That of course be a good thing for Australian agriculture as long a we get a comprehensive deal that include agriculture at the end of the day , '' he say . 
Trade Minister Mark Vaile say he will not be rush and will only settle for a comprehensive deal that include agriculture . 
Meanwhile the uranium industry say it welcome a move to export yellowcake to China but will not support price regulation . 
Premier Wen have float the idea of price fix to stop the cost of uranium rise too high like other raw material include coal and iron ore . 
But Ian Hore-Lacy from the Uranium Information Centre say resource deal be commercial contract , drive by market force . 

Plantation tree may contribute to greenhouse gas level 
New research suggest plantation tree could actually contribute to greenhouse gas level rather than low them . 
A report in the international science journal Nature say the tree emit methane . 
It be previously think methane emission from plant come from area where oxygen be limit , like rice paddy . 
Research scientist Philip Polglase say while the finding be totally unexpected , it be not necessarily alarm . 
`` What we in Ensis have do recently be compare expect rate of methane release from tree plantation with the rate of carbon uptake , '' he say . 
`` The amount of methane release be only a very small amount or the carbon equivalent take up . We think it 's about less than 5 per cent . 

Judges notice impact of climate change on wine quality 
The quality of wine world-wide be be affect by climate change and critic and judge be already notice the change . 
That be the consensus from a world conference on climate change and wine in Europe . 
An Australian speaker at the conference , Dr Richard Smart , say industry leader be already plan for big shift in variety grow in establish wine region . 

Better disease report system urgently need : academic 
A lead health academic say human be at a great risk of contract disease like the plague , Ross River fever , SARS and HIV because health authority be not properly track disease carry by animal . 
Professor Peter Curson say human now often come into contact with wild animal and development like housing estate on former farmland increase the risk of exposure to disease . 
He say well report system be urgently need . 
`` One classic example of this be how we collect or survey information about infection in animal and how that be do independently from collect material about disease in human , '' he say . 

Concerns mount over wool quality 
Concerns be grow in the wool market over the amount of pool quality wool on offer . 
Despite a weak Australian dollar , the market have drop significantly in recent week . 
Mike Crooks from Elders say quality issue need to be address to lure buyer back . 
`` We 've get a lot of tender wool and old wool come onto the market a a percentage of the overall catalogue and country , other than China , be really not in there go like we know they can be , '' he say . 

Grain grower expect to approach planting with 'caution ' 
High fuel and fertiliser cost , a low Australian dollar and global grain price will affect planting for this season 's grain crop . 
Forecasters say most farmer be expect average seasonal condition but there be still uncertainty about expect price . 
Plantings of wheat , barley and canola be all tip to be similar to last season . 
Ron Storey from Australian Wheat Forecasters think many grower will play it safe . 
`` I think a lot of farmer be still under financial pressure . Whilst in a yield sense last year do n't turn out too badly , across Australia , the price of course be very , very low around harvest time so people be pretty nervous about that and they 'll be look for a recovery year this year and approach it with quite a bit of caution I 'd think , '' he say . 
With average rain , Mr Storey 's forecast a national wheat crop of around 22 million tonne for the 2006-07 season . 
And there be some good news , a drop in forecast corn planting in the US be expect to lead to improved wheat price . 
While less corn will be grow , there be expect to be high demand for the crop from the grow ethanol industry . 

WA 's north-west mop up after Glenda 
Western Australia 's north-west be mop up after it fourth cyclone of the year which have spar the region from major damage or flooding . 
When category 4 cyclone Glenda cross the coast late last week it dump hundred of millimetre of rain , spark fear of rise river and flooding , however most area have escape unscathed . 
Carnarvon banana grower be thank their lucky star Glenda petered out before it hit the region , spar the region 's banana crop . 
Grower Bruce Munro say it be a nervous wait on Thursday evening . 
`` We do really well . We cop a little bit of wind , there 's an odd bunch down but we survive very well , '' he say . 
Meanwhile the region 's mining industry be also mop up . 

Dept to lease out ag research station 
In a major shake-up , Western Australia 's Department of Agriculture be plan to lease out it 13 agricultural research station to farmer . 
Spokesman Rob Delane say the station be too small and not productive enough to allow lead research work . 
`` A small department of agriculture research station with a couple of hundred hectare of bulk crop be not the place to demonstrate lead crop technique when our neighbour have get property five and 10 time our size , '' he say . 

'Self-promotion ' need in agriculture industry 
Agriculture 's future leader say the industry have to do more to promote itself . 
More than 30 young people have take part in a Young Rural Leaders ' Course in Canberra and believe the farm sector be mar by the image of drought-stricken farmer . 
They also believe urban consumer do not understand what role farmer plan in produce their food . 
Victorian winemaker and lamb producer BeN Clifton say agriculture need to get proactive . 
`` Self-promotion be the best way to do it , '' he say . 
`` We 've get a good product and I know in my region , especially in north-east Victoria , we be absolutely spoilt almost every season even with the wine in the area . 
`` There 's not a single wine style in Australia that can be make that ca n't be make in north-east Victoria but we have to tell people that . 

Age no barrier to competitive wood chopping 
Competitive wood chopping might be consider a young bloke 's game but an 84-year-old Tasmanian have show age be no barrier . 
Retired tree feller and former wood chop title holder Henry Munday be a crowd favourite at the Hamilton Show north of Hobart at the weekend . 
While he take almost five minute longer than his competitor in the wood chop , he get there in the end , with the help of an old mate . 
`` That 's an old plum axe , one of the old American plum , it 's like me , it 's pretty old , '' he say . 
`` But it 's not a big axe , I do n't use real big ax . 
`` I 'm not strong enough now like those other big fella out there to use big heavy ax so I use the lighter one . 

Central Australian cattle head west 
Central Australia 's beef producer be reap the benefit of recent heavy rainfall in Western Australia . 
Despite the rise freight cost , WA pastoralists be buy cattle from the centre a they look to cash in on the best season in year . 

New crop variety double yield in East Timor 
New crop variety be trialled in East Timor have double yield . 
Maize be the stable crop along the rugged country on the doorstep of Darwin and harvest be now under way . 
In the steep upland of Liquica overlook the capital of Dili , some maize farmer have record yield of up to three tonne per hectare . 
That be twice the average and be the result of five year of research and collaboration under the Seeds of Life project , which include rice , casava , sweet potato and peanut . 
This Australian-funded initiative aim to improve nutrition and wellbeing amongst the subsistance-farming family of this newly-independent nation . 

Wine grapes oversupply to impact on company profit 
The global oversupply of wine grape be start to hurt the industry 's big company . 
The world 's large wine business , Constellation , be tip to announce a low than expect profit to the New York Stock Exchange later this week . 
US wine industry forecaster John Fredrickson say the global market be in a down phase , particularly for country produce cheap bulk wine . 
But he say in Australia , the answer be not in grow few grape . 
`` You start to talk about pull grape , well that be really drastic , that mean you have some other alternative and I do n't think it be go to be any huge percentage of vineyard that run into that kind of extreme difficulty , '' he say . 
Meanwhile a new research program for the wine industry will develop new export market and create wine to suit specific taste . 
The Grape and Wine Research Development Corporation be use federal fund to investigate the wine taste of consumer in country like China , India , Eastern Europe and South America . 
Professor of wine marketing at the University of South Australia , Larry Lockshin , say packaging , label , pricing and wine style will also be consider . 
`` We 're not go to come up with an answer that say , 'this be the wine for China ' , '' he say . 
`` We 're go to come out with the same thing scientist have come out with . 
`` This be , these be yeast and these be the flavour they produce , these be prune and canopy training technique , this be what they do to your tannin level . 
`` We 're go to develop a method . Companies will then be able to decide whether they want to use it to develop wine for their own brand that suit different market . '' 
And the Victorian Farmers Federation want good regulation of tax incentive scheme to stop oversupply problem . 
President Simon Ramsay say the scheme have contribute to over-investment in vineyard , lead to an oversupply of wine grape . 
He say in south-west Victoria tax incentive for timber plantation investor seem to have affect normal competition for land . 
`` What we do n't want to see be good traditional agricultural farming land be turn into plantation that have a sort-of unclear 12 year profit period where we be not allow the food and fibre production to continue for generation , '' he say . 

Farmers warn about loss of single desk for wheat export 
Farmers have be warn that grain price could drop dramatically if AWB lose control of the single desk for wheat export . 
AWB International director Clinton Starr tell a meeting of graingrowers at Murtoa in Victoria last night , that the company have secure a $ 13 per tonne premium each year through the single desk . 
He say farmer should be very concerned about any plan to change the single desk after the Cole inquiry and AWB 's experience in manage the system be as valuable to grower , a the single desk itself . 
`` I do n't say that that be the only structure that can deliver that , '' he say . 
`` But what I would say be that if you change it you have to be very careful when you change or you effect change because in fact a lot of it be wrap up in the intellectual and brain power of the people you employ to deliver the excess return to you . '' 
Meanwhile India be look to import a further 1.5 million tonne of wheat this year . 

Tribunal reject call for southern bluefin tuna ban 
A conservation group 's attempt to ban the export of southern bluefin tuna from Port Lincoln in South Australia have fail . 
The Humane Society International ( HSI ) put a case to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for tuna export to be ban because it believe the specie be endanger . 
But after three year of public consultation , the tribunal have uphold the Federal Government 's decision to allow export to continue . 
Tuna Boat Owners Association president Brian Jeffriess say no-one else agree that tuna be at risk . 
`` The court do n't think so , the Minister do n't think so , the public process do n't think so , '' he say . 

US join call for end to dairy subsidy 
The US have join Australia and other major dairy export country to call for an end to subsidy , which they say be cripple legitimate trade . 
The Global Dairy Alliance have write to the World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) , also call for great market access by 2010 . 
Chairman of the Australian Dairy Industry Council , Allan Burgess , say have support from a heavily subsidise farming country like the US give the campaign a strong voice . 
`` And they still have certain level of subsidy there and if the WTO change take place they 'll be reduce substantially , '' he say . 

Goat abattoir lay off 140 in quarantine dispute 
Australia 's large goat abattoir in western Queensland have temporarily close to address animal welfare concern . 
In November , the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) require repair to floor in the abattoir 's forcing yard , which be not carry out . 
Managing director of Western Exporters Neil Duncan say he have be force to lay off 140 worker , include 20 Vietnamese worker on special visa . 
He say they will be leave without an income and without access to Centrelink payment . 
`` They 're not able to access anything , there again we 're look into that at this stage to see how we can help everybody out , they still will be employ by the company but how and where we 're go to do it , I 'm just not quite sure at this stage , '' he say . 
`` We will make every effort to get everybody back to work as soon a possible . '' 

Sheep succumb to lupinosis outbreak 
Two hundred sheep have die on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula , which be experience it bad outbreak of lupinosis in 20 year . 
Twelve sheep producer have report death , with come cattle suffer symptom as well . 

Central Australian beef producer benefit from WA rain 
Central Australia 's beef producer be reap the benefit of recent heavy rainfall in Western Australia . 
Despite the rise freight cost , WA pastoralists be say to be buy cattle from the centre a they look to cash in on the best season in year . 
Alice Springs livestock agent Herby Neville say it be the first time in four year that he have see central Australian cattle head west . 
`` They 're experience a very , very good season over there and I think it 's give the Pilbara and all that Western Australia , the Gascoyne and all that a very good drink , '' he say . 
`` And because of their flush of the season over there , they sometimes come over here and get a bit excited and buy a few cow and calf . '' 
But agent in the west believe pastoralists be more likely to look to the Kimberley for cattle , because of the high cost of transport . 
WA pastoral livestock manager Eric Broad say despite this year 's high rainfall not everyone can afford to restock . 
`` It 's an interesting question , there 's a belt of country that 's be hammer for about five year without any rain . And they 're the one that be really low down in number , '' he say . 

Lessons learn from mad cow epidemic 
The discovery of mad cow disease have teach scientist how to good manage disease and improve how farmer and industry respond to new virus outbreak . 
It have 10 year since the link be discover between mad cow disease in cattle and CJD in human , with billion of dollar spend in control and research ever since . 
Professor Colin Masters from the University of Melbourne say science have learn many lesson from the mad cow epidemic . 
`` We 've learn a lot about risk minimisation and disease management , '' he say . 
`` If we 've learn anything at all we should have learnt that it 's not a good thing to fee one species back to itself . 
`` In Europe it 's be virtually outlaw , the situation in North America be different , they 're watch very carefully what 's happen in Europe and they 're take what appear to them to be appropriate measure at this time . '' 

Dam to house turtle hatchery 
The new Paradise Dam in south-east Queensland be soon to be the home of a world-first turtle hatchery . 
Concerns be raise over the future of the endanger elseya turtle during construction of the dam on the Burnett River , south-west of Bundaberg . 
But the new hatchery be design to restore turtle number , with thousand of baby hatchling expect to be release over the next five year . 
Craig Thamm from the Burnett Dam Alliance say attack on egg and hatchling by predator be the single big risk to the turtle 's future . 
`` Particularly your feral predator such a fox and pig be [ prey on ] the egg and you 're get very few , if any hatchling back into the river , '' he say . 

New plan call for change to single desk wheat export 
AWB would lose control of the single desk for wheat export and it power to stop rival company from export wheat , under a new plan release at Grains Week . 
The report , prepare for the Grains Council , also call for the Wheat Export Authority to be replace with a grower-owned licensing and marketing body call Australian Wheat Associates . 
Report author Colin Benjamin say the Cole inquiry show the wheat export system be fail and grower risk lose control of their sector unless they accept major change . 
`` To get into a global competitive game you 've get to be play in the league of your competitor and you 've get to be strategic , '' he say . 
`` US Wheat Associates have be the long term major league champion fight u which we have successfully beat to a pulp over the decade , we now have to be see a fight on a level playing field , prior to the Doha Round because if we do n't , we will have it impose upon u . '' 
The Grains Council say Australian Wheat Associates would be model on industry body for the meat and dairy sector . 
The Council say that would give AWB 's current veto power to grower , along with it responsibility to market and promote Australian wheat . 
Chairman Murray Jones say if the change be adopt , they will be implement over three year . 
`` The last thing grower want be to have an abrupt change , '' he say . 
`` It just can not happen . It 's just not go to work , it will affect our financial system , grower want security and planning , they want to know their finance be secure , they want to be assure they 're go to get their payment , they want to have a transparent system they can see through . That 's what they 're ask for . '' 
Meanwhile five US farm state senator have ask the Bush administration to investigate AWB payment to former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein . 
The group also want AWB sanction if it be find to have violate US trade law or World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) rule . 
The senator cite the finding of a UN audit of AWB , which find it pay some $ 220 million in alleged kickback to secure wheat contract through the UN oil-for-food program . 
Top Senate Agriculture Committee Democrat Tom Harkin 's spokesman Dave Townsend say US farmer should not have to compete with foreign government in trade . 
`` It 's clear that there be gross violation of the UN oil-for-food program by the Australian Wheat Board and we feel that the US Government need to make a determination whether the law be break , '' he say . 

Gold price increase may force jewellery manufacturing overseas 
If you be in the market for a gold wedding band , you have good be prepare to pay more . 
The price of June spot gold hit $ US596 an ounce this week , put enormous pressure on Australian jewellery maker . 
John Howie , from the Australian Jewellers Association , say at current gold price , manufacturer will be force to up the price of jewellery and get their design make overseas at a low cost . 
`` Many Australian manufacturer have bite the bullet and decide that really what they have to do be design here and use the quality we have in design and manufacture overseas , '' he say . 
`` It 's the same a the footwear industry and the clothing industry , we just have to find other way to do it . '' 
Those high gold price and advance in exploration technology be drive a new gold boom in Victoria . 
Ballarat Goldfields have attract $ 50 million in international investment to ramp up it production . 
And while the Stawell gold mine be be wind down before it be take over by Leviathan Resources , exploration manager John Dugdale say it be now expand . 
`` The grade we try to keep up to the mill be five and six gram of gold to the tonne , '' he say . 

Minister confident forest scheme will hold up to scrutiny 
Federal Forestry Minister Eric Abetz be confident that Australia 's Forest Standard will be uphold after a UK Government review . 
The UK have place a number of global forest certification scheme on probation while it review guarantee that the wood be sustainably and legally harvest . 
Senator Abetz be reject suggestion that Australian forest product have be ban and be confident that the Australian Forest Standard will hold up to international scrutiny . 
`` We a a government can rely on robust , peer review , scientific evidence and we will be put the fact fairly and squarely before these government , '' he say . 

Ewe market remain firm 
Ewe price be go against the seasonal trend and maintain good saleyard price across Australia . 
It be believe to be partly due to flock rebuilding after the drought and also a switch away from the high input and uncertainty of crop . 
Breeding stock be in demand from grower put off by narrow grain profit . 
Aaroy Yiori from the national livestock reporting service say farmer want ewes mainly for the prime lamb market . 
`` Re-stocker demand 's pretty strong , especially on female and that 's certainly one of the thing that 's underpin the market , '' he say . 

Bare bum sheep produce good wool : expert 
Research be show that merino which be naturally bare in the rear end produce good fleece than those from other sheep . 
The discovery of the sheep on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula two year ago raise hope of use breed to end the need for mulesing and crutching . 
Professor Phil Hynd from the University of Adelaide say a study of the sheep have also find that the trait can be breed into commercial flock . 
`` Bare sheep do n't produce less wool , they actually produce more wool , '' he say . 

Goat abattoir back to full production 
The nation 's large goat abattoir have return to full production today , two day after tell 140 worker they would be lay off temporarily . 

Rainfall figure recover in most area 
Although some part of south-east Queensland be still very dry , the National Climate Centre say the rest of the country have do well out of recent rainfall . 
The centre 's late drought statement show rainfall figure have recover in most area over the past year , with isolated dry patch in Tasmania , Victoria and New South Wales . 
Climatologist Blair Trewin say chart rainfall pattern over three to 12 month period can be helpful . 
`` Really the time scale that drought matter on depends on what you 're try to do , '' he say . 

Rice farmer back in production 
After year of low water allocation and tough growing condition , rice farmer in southern New South Wales be relieve to be back on their harvester this month . 
During the drought , many farmer think they have grow their last crop but with growing demand for rice , more grower be return to the crop . 
Rice grower Tim McKindley , at Caldwell near Deniliquin , say provide there be enough water around , rice have a good future . 

High price revive southern Qld fruit and veg industry 
A major fruit and vegetable grow district in Queensland be celebrate some of it best produce price in decade . 
Hot summer condition saw a drop in production on the Granite Belt in the state 's south , force price to triple in some case . 
Stanthorpe capsicum grower Cameron Gow say the high price have revive the local industry . 

Citrus grower export return tip to fall 
Australia 's citrus grower will be able export more fruit to the United States this year but return be tip to fall . 
A large navel crop be expect this season and 1.9 million carton of orange be expect to be export . 
Stuart Monaghan from DNE World Fruit Sales , which import Australian citrus into the US , say grower will have to accept low price to sell the fruit and compete with South Africa . 
`` We 've get to get retail price in the US down to where consumer will start buy them right away rather than start off at high price , '' he say . 

Local customer remain priority for WA banana grower 
Western Australian banana grower continue to face pressure to send fruit to the eastern state . 
Two and a half week ago , fruit from Carnarvon be raise a a solution to an impending nation-wide banana shortage in the wake of cyclone Larry in Queensland . 
But agent John Mercer meet grower in Carnarvon last night and he say while the pressure from the east be intense , Perth market still remain a top priority . 
`` We 're now two and a half week wiser then we where before . Certainly the overwhelming thing that come out of the meeting last night be that we want to supply WA customer first , '' he say . 
`` If per chance the demand from the eastern state get great than that , there 's a possibility we may send some fruit east . My guess be long term we 'll send a little bit of fruit over there . '' 
Meanwhile the Federal Government have promise to review assistance give to cyclone-affected farmer in north Queensland if necessary . 
Banana grower have criticise the Government 's $ 200 a week wage subsidy to keep worker on farm . 

Grazier borrow boat to help save flood cattle 
A western Queensland grazier say he have have to use a boat to save cattle from floodwaters on his property . 
Heavy recent rain have dump 150 millimetre on the town of Aramac in the past 48 hour , lead to record flooding in place . 
Andrew Cowper from Merino Downs say he have to borrow his neighbour 's boat to get to his cattleyards and stop weaner cattle from stray into the fast running water . 
`` I be worry we 'd lose them if they 'd get sweep out of the small creek into the main Belltopper creek , '' he say . 

AWB reject wheat export system plan 
AWB have reject a new plan to overhaul the wheat export system and say it be wrong to make change base on assumption the industry be in crisis . 
The plan , unveil by the Grains Council , would remove AWB 's power to block other company export wheat and increase shipment from AWB 's rival . 
Attacking the plan , AWB chairman Brendan Stewart tell Grains Week delegate , the industry be not in crisis because of the Iraq kickback scandal . 
`` What I see at the moment be a debate that 's be do be a vacuum and debate that 's be do in a self-induced crisis mode which I have to say be not there , '' he say . 
The discussion paper suggest AWB could lose the single desk in 2010 , while a new body call Australian Wheat Associates would take over the company 's veto power . 
But AWB 's Ian Donges tell delegate be be dangerous to base Australia Wheat Associates on industry company like Meat and Livestock Australia . 
`` I would n't use that a a model that necessarily be go to deliver a good outcome just because it be a model . There be other way of do it , '' he say . 
Mr Donges also say the timeline to implement the plan where unlikely to be achieve . 
The discussion paper have also be criticise by grower and AWB 's rival . 
The New South Wales Farmers Association say it will not support any plan which increase export through company other than AWB . 
There be also an attempt from one grower to call a no-confidence motion in the Grains Council . 
The Grain Exporters Association 's Alick Osborne say while the plan provide for increase export competition , it do not go far enough . 
`` This may go some way to sharpen that process up if there be other exporter that can access particular market and can post their bid , '' he say . 

CBH profit drop 
WA grain handler and marketer Co-operative Bulk Handling ( CBH ) have report a net after-tax profit of $ 61.4 million . 
That be down $ 40 million , a a result of a 3 million tonne drop in last season 's grain harvest . 

Residents warn a river continue to rise 
Police be warn the resident of Katherine in the Northern Territory to be prepare to evacuate a the Katherine River continue to rise . 
The Katherine River have grow into a mighty brown fast flow flood today , a flood that have already break it bank outside of town and be now scant centimetre from do the same in Katherine itself . 
While police be hop the river will peak shortly at 18.89 metre , there be the continued possibility the river will continue to rise and authority be warn resident to pack up the essential and be prepare to hear the evacuation siren . 

Abattoir expect to confirm sacking withdrawn 
The Cowra abattoir be today expect to confirm it be withdraw termination notice for 29 worker . 
The decision to sack the employee and offer low pay contract become a major test of the Federal Government 's new industrial relation law . 
One of the affected worker , Rodney Veney , say he be thankful for the national attention on the Cowra abattoir because it help save his job . 
`` Cowra 's only a pin dot on the map and to get all this attention I think management might have be a bit shocked about it , '' he say . 
`` As I say , they 've take the termination notice back but if I do n't have the job at the abattoir I 'm in a bit of a difficult position . 

Rural doctor want fund for more psychologist 
Rural doctor say new funding for mental health service must take into account the lack of psychologist in regional Australia . 
The Federal Government will spend $ 1.8 billion increase psychology service and introduce new program for young people to cope with depression . 
Dr Ross Maxwell , president of the Rural Doctors Association , believe a plan to employ mental health nurse in medical clinic be a good approach for country area . 
`` I think it have the potential , if well manage and well deliver , to make a difference , '' he say . 
`` I think the initiative around employ mental health nurse in psychiatrist and general practice room , I think that be a very interesting and innovative way forward . 

Exporters can protect themselves against interest rate rise : strategist 
Talk in the financial market this week be not good news for farmer or the resource sector . 
Markets be abuzz with speculation that interest rate could soon rise for the first time in more than 12 month . 
The forecast have lead currency market speculator to buy the Aussie dollar , push it up by one US cent in one day . 
Interest rate strategist with Macquarie Bank Rory Robertson say any rate rise would be small and exporter can protect themselves . 
`` Australia 's get this once in a generation commodity price boom go which would tend to produce upward pressure on the Aussie dollar , '' he say . 
`` Yet the Australian dollar last week be hover around it post float average and most economist would say that be a bit bizarre . 

Farm succession debate under way in Dubbo 
The difficult issue of hand the farm over be be debate at the first national conference on farm succession this week at Dubbo , in New South Wales . 
There be a grow recognition that few individual professional , like accountant , counsellor and consultant have all the skill to help farm family through the succession process . 
Victorian accountant Peter Nelson say the conference have help him realise the benefit of obtain other specialist advice to help his client . 
`` Most definitely and there be people who do these sort of thing , you know they 're more trained and suit to the project . We just need to resource them and bring them into our system , '' he say . 

Cattle sale under way in freeze condition 
Cattle buyer from across Australia be brave freeze condition in Bothwell in Tasmania , where 5,500 weaners be go under the hammer . 
It be the large single cattle sale in southern Australia , with buyer from South Australia and New South Wales . 
Chris Taylor from Roberts Limited say price be expect to be high but that will not deter interstate buyer . 
`` The mainlanders that have come to this sale over the year have be happy to pay what 's consider a a premium price , '' he say . 

New strain of stem rust disease find in SA 
South Australia could be face one of it bad cropping season for the fungal disease stem rust . 
New strain of the disease have be find in wheat plant from across the Eyre Peninsula and the southern half of the Yorke Peninsula . 
Hugh Wallwork of the South Australian Research and Development Institute say wet condition over summer help the disease to thrive . 
`` I think it would be the most that I have come across in the last 20 year , '' he say . 

Blue gum woodchip shipment set for Japan 
The first shipment of plantation blue gum woodchips from western Victoria and south-eastern South Australia be be load at Portland . 
The 21,000 tonne load will head for pulp and paper mill in Japan tomorrow and eventually half a million tonne will be source locally each year . 
Nick Kingsford from Mitsui Afforestation Limited say this first load be a significant milestone for the industry . 
`` It 's the first commercial shipment and there 's a significant resource out there and from here export be just go to continue to grow , '' he say . 

Indonesian islands focus of rural development workshop 
Agroforestry could be a major step towards food security across Nusa Tengarra Timur . 
The island , in eastern Indonesia , be the focus of an international rural development workshop in Kupang this week . 
Small remote rural village rely on subsistence agriculture provide for their daily food requirement have develop stand of mahogany , sandlewood , teak and cashew . 
There be also small pocket of original forest vegetation within the broad tropical savannah grassland . 
But it have be agree that non-timber forestry product such a honey , dye , medicine and fruit could be far develop to generate income . 

Exporters concern about Indonesian ban 
Horticultural exporter say Indonesia have effectively ban import of table grape and other Australian produce , in retaliation for the Papuan asylum seeker affair . 
Table grape shipment be stop indefinitely yesterday afternoon after the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service receive notification from Indonesia of a new export protocol , which exporter say be unworkable . 
Indonesia be Australia 's second big table grape market , worth more than $ 50 million . 
Brian Ceresa from exporter John Holman and Company say he be in little doubt what have cause action from Indonesia . 
`` My personal suspicion be simply a knee-jerk reaction come from the Indonesian Government over the refugee status of the West Papuan situation which have be well publicise over the last seven day , '' he say . 
AQIS say it be try to get to obtain more information about the export protocol , but believe it 's likely to affect all country , not just Australia . 
Trade Minister Mark Vaile say he be now investigate the situation in Indonesia , but have not receive any notification of an official ban on horticultural produce . 
He say he will not consider compensation for exporter who might experience delay until more in know . 
`` I mean it 's happen in the past and we 'll have a look at the issue on it merit if that eventuate , '' he say . 

US senator seek US action against AWB 
A key US senator claim the Bush administration have side with Australia instead of American wheat grower in the oil-for-food scandal , and will use the allegation to press for US action . 
Just day after ask the Bush administration to probe whether the AWB violate US law or WTO trade rule , top Senate Agriculture Committee Democrat Tom Harkin have cite US cable first disclose in the Cole investigation . 
`` We 've now discover that the Bush administration advise the Australian Government on how to handle the Australian Wheat Board 's grow public problem about it dealing in Iraq , '' he say . 
`` This be very troubling . It appear the administration , outright dismiss any credibility to the Australian Wheat Board 's contribute to the Hussein regime , under the UN 's oil for food program . '' 

US farm payment tip to fall 
Domestic farm payment in the United States be likely to fall under a new farm bill to be introduce next year . 
The US have offer to reduce tariff and subsidy a part of the Doha world trade talk , but will need to reform it domestic policy first . 
Visiting Australia , senior economist with the US Department of Agriculture , Carole Goodloe say average farm income be well above other sector , and government assistance be hard to justify . 
`` Just about all the major player be say it 's time for some reform , '' she say . 

Key US retailer back wool campaign 
Two key US retailer have back the wool industry 's multi-million dollar test marketing campaign to get American shopper to buy more wool . 
Three body be fund the campaign , include Australian Wool Innovation , promotional body Woolmark , and the International Wool Textile Organisation . 
Head of Woolmark Brenda Mcgahan say the campaign , to be launch in September , be also try to boost the price of wool for grower and manufacturer . 
`` It be a major issue for our grower and also for the international wool pipeline , '' she say . 
`` A consumer ca n't buy wool if the retailer do n't stock it , and a retailer be n't go to stock wool if they do n't think consumer be go to buy it . 
`` We 'll be work with their buying team and their sale associate , because why would a consumer pay a premium for something if they do n't understand the benefit and a good sale man or woman need to be able to explain to a consumer why you 're go to pay more for a product . '' 
Those two US retailer have not yet be name . 
Australian Wool Innovation have appoint Dr John Keniry to chair it 2006 WoolPoll Panel . 
Dr Keniry lead the review in the live animal export trade in 2003 . 
The poll of woolgrowers be hold every three year , to set the level of the wool tax . 
The wool market slip again at auction this week , with the eastern market indicator drop off eight cent , to 728 cent a kilogram clean . 
Landmark agent Rodney Peglar , say while a seasonal record be pay for a superfine bale from northern region , the broader wool perform particularly poorly . 
`` It 's two market , there be the good wool and unfortunately due to seasonal condition the buyer be have tremendous trouble be able to find enough wool to make batch up that be sound , or of the right quality , '' he say . 

River level steady in Katherine 
The river be steady , and the water very slowly drain away from the street of Katherine in the Northern Territory . 
The Stuart Highway south of Katherine have now re-opened to light vehicle , although the central part of the town remain flooded . Traffic north to Katherine be restrict to essential vehicle , and the road north to Darwin be still impassable . 

Weather keep WA forecaster busy 
Life in Western Australia 's north-west have never be busy for staff at the Bureau of Meteorology at Port Hedland . 
Category two Cyclone Hubert be expect to cross the Pilbara coast late tonight . 
It be the seventh cyclone to affect the region this year and forecaster Gavin Edmonds be quickly become a household name across the north west . 
`` It 's be very busy have n't it this season and a lot of people utilise , I suppose my service , '' he say . 
`` I 've get both phone sometimes attach to both ear and there 's obviously people queue up on the end of those . 

Bird flu confirm in UK 
The deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu have be confirm in the UK for the first time . 
Tests on a wild swan in Scotland have confirm the disease . 
The Scottish Government have set up a surveillance zone and ban the movement of bird in or out of the area . 
Germany have also report it first case of bird flu in commerical poultry , and in Africa , H5N1 have reach the continent 's large city of Lagos , in Nigeria . 
Meanwhile , the late quarantine survey in East Timor show there be still no sign of avian influenza . 
Four major initiative be underway to increase the chance of early detection , and to help the East Timorese prepare for the disease . 
Dr Emma Watkins say improve public awareness , rapid disease test and help plan scarce resource be key point . 
`` Effective surveillance really rely on be able to investigate disease a it come along , '' she say . 
So the capacity of the local animal health authority to do that , be really important . So we have undertake a continuous effort to increase the capacity to locally diagnose this disease . 

Researchers aim for safe Q-fever vaccine 
Scientists at James Cook University in Queensland be work to develop an alternative vaccine for Q-fever , which will not produce debilitate side effect . 
Q-fever be a highly infectious disease usually catch after contact with affected animal , which cause flu-like symptom and can be fatal . 
The university 's Ray Layton say the new vaccine will be develop over the next six to eight month . 
`` In fact it 's one of the only vaccines out there at the moment where you need to be screen before you 're vaccinate to make sure you can actually be vaccinate without too many adverse affect and that probably stem I think from the fact that they culture this organism in chicken egg , and a lot of people have adverse reaction to those egg yolk antigen , '' he say . 

Cattle sale strong 
Arctic condition at the Bothwell calf sale in Tasmania yesterday do not deter cattle buyer from around Australia . 
Nearly 6,000 calf be auction for around $ 3 million . 
The top price for the day of $ 880 a head go to Ellendale grazier Greg and Tania Downham for their Hereford-Charolais steer . 
Many of the calf will be ship to Victoria , South Australia and New South Wales . 
Greg Downham say price be up on last year and the calf be in excellent condition . 
`` We 've have an exceptional season , the best that we can remember for a long time , the spring and summer have just be something out of the box , '' he say . 

US abuzz about Aussie bee 
Bee hive be be steal from almond orchard in the United States , lead to a rapid growth in import from Australia . 
The bee be vital to pollinate the country 's rapidly grow almond industry . 
Barry Pobke from the South Australian Apiarist Association , say thousand of kilogram of bee could be export every year . 

Wet cause havoc in north-west Qld 
Life save carnival usually have a fair bit to do with water , but in north-west Queensland too much water have force the cancellation of an annual fund-raiser for the Royal Flying Doctor service . 
Heavy rain around Kynuna , between Winton and Cloncurry , have flood property cut the Landsborough Highway , leave dozen of traveller strand . 
The cook at the local Blue Heeler Hotel Matthew 'cookie ' Messina say the big wet be cause havoc . 

Flooding delay Asian live cattle export 
Flooding across the Top End have create major delay in live cattle export to Asia . 
Ships bound for Indonesia be expect to remain anchored in the Port of Darwin until after Easter and the market be expect to swing towards available slaughter cattle . 
Steve Ellison from the Northern Territory Live Exporters Association say at least 9,000 cattle be strand . 
`` Due to the wet weather at this stage they be have trouble get them out , '' he say . 
`` It will certainly affect saleyard number and obviously the movement of cattle wherever . 
`` The road be closed , stock camp have get to be able to work to put the cattle in the yard even if the yard be open . So it 's a double whammy really . 
`` [ But ] the condition of the cattle be excellent , but no it look like be a boomer season . We 'll get the number , it 's just a case of you have get to be patient . '' 
Meanwhile the Territory 's third big town be in recovery mode after last week 's flood . 
Businesses in Katherine have resume trading , resident have return home to assess the damage and the Health Department will begin mosquito spray today . 
Local mango grower Peter Marks say the water be fall away quickly and he do not think the flood will delay this year 's flowering . 
`` Another grower speak to me the other day and he 's get one block on the river , '' he say . 
`` He 's get a house there and the house be high and dry but he say the water be flow through the tree , not that deep but he do n't see any great concern with it . 
`` In fact we find if we have a big wet , we have some section of the paddock that stay quite wet and they always flower the early . 
`` So they 're a weird creature , where none of u have get them work out too good yet . Pretty amazing . '' 
North-west of Katherine , resident across the Daly River region be prepare for major flooding within the next two day . 
A king tide near the mouth of the Daly River mid-week be also expect to have an impact . 

Official aim to settle trade dispute with Indonesia 
Efforts be under way to rescue Australia 's $ 35 million horticulture trade with Indonesia . 
Exports of grape , citrus , apple and pear be effectively suspend after the Indonesian Government impose surprise new export protocol . 
Australian quarantine official stop issue permit for Indonesia on Thursday , although a shipment of grape worth nearly a million dollar be already at sea and be in danger of be reject . 
David Minus from the Australian Horticultural Exporters Association say a federal trade official have be dispatch to Indonesia to try to settle the dispute . 
`` Australia be fight for it horticultural survival and we need every market we can hang on to , '' he say . 
`` Indonesia be after all a big market , it 's not the wealthy but it 's a very big market and it 's right on our doorstep . 
`` We 're ideally place to serve it with temperate fruit and sub-tropical citrus that they have difficulty grow in Indonesia . '' 
Table grape grower hope the quarantine dispute can be resolve quickly . 
Australian Table Grape Association president Nick Muraca say despite initial fear , the political dispute over asylum seeker from Papua do not appear to have cause the problem . 
`` I do n't believe that to be the case nor do we have any reason to believe that that be the case , '' he say . 

PM to give statement to AWB inquiry 
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile be about to step into the witness box at the oil-for-food inquiry in Sydney . 
His appearance come a the Prime Minister , John Howard , confirm he have be call on to provide a sworn statement to the inquiry . 
Senior counsel assist the inquiry John Agius tell a packed hearing room , the Prime Minister will supply by 4pm tomorrow his confidential statement document when he first learn of irregular payment by AWB to the Iraqi regime . 
This afternoon , Mr Vaile 's examination will explore what and when the Trade Minister know about money pay to the Iraqi Grains Board , the Jordanian trucking company Alia and secret cable advise of complaint by the US Wheat Associates about Australia 's inflated wheat contract with Iraq . 

Drought relief funding increase raise question 
The Productivity Commission say the Federal Government 's 100 per cent increase in drought relief funding may need investigation . 
Drought relief be set to top $ 600 million in 2005/06 and receive special mention in the commission 's annual review of government expenditure . 
Chairman Gary Banks say the commission be not question the need for assistance but say any single item cost more than half a billion dollar could spark call for a review . 
`` There be always a question about that , '' he say . 
`` We never know whether we have get the model exactly right in any area of industry support . 
`` Clearly drought assistance be extremely important and you would n't want to make any change without very careful examination of all the issue . 

Flooding continue in western Qld 
Flooding be continue to cause problem in Queensland . 
Heavy rain in the state 's central mid-west last week have cut road around Longreach but flood in the Thomson River be expect to be a boon for grazier . 
Moderate flooding be now expect to extend downstream to Jundah . 
Further north , the barramundi be bite after the floodwaters and Arthur McDouall almost land one in the main street of Normanton . 
`` Threw a line in down there for a while virtually at the end of the main street , have a barra on there almost straightaway , get him to the edge of the bank and he jump off the hook but you get in the right place at the right time they get some good catch when the flood be on , '' he say . 

Merger set to create third large Aust agribusiness 
The stage be set for the formation of Australia 's third large agribusiness behind Elders and Landmark . 
The majority of shareholder in New South Wales base Ruralco have agree to a merger with Tasmanian company , Roberts Limited . 
Ruralco chairman Richard England say the two company will combine their wool , livestock , real estate and rural merchandising business . 
Mr England expect the board of Roberts to endorse the offer at a meeting today . 
`` The offer be five Ruralco share for every eight Roberts share , '' he say . 
`` The merge group will have a market capitalisation in excess of $ 160 million . 

Tomato producer call for eradication of new plant virus 
Australia 's chief plant health officer will try to control rather than eradicate a new tomato virus in Queensland . 
Yellow leaf curl virus have be confirm for the first time in Australia at farm on the outskirt of Brisbane . 
It be carry by silver leaf whitefly and quarantine measure be expect to be announce this week . 
James Head from Queensland 's large tomato producer , SP Exports , say an eradication program would have be well . 
`` I 'd say control be probably the easy option to take , '' he say . 
`` Whether or not the effect will be what 's desire for the outcome , whether control would be good than eradication , I 'd say eradication would sound the good idea . 

Dairy farmer win milk price rise 
Western Australian dairy farmer have win another price rise for their milk . 
Fonterra lift price one and a half centre a litre last month but farmer say that be not enough . 
The company will pay another half a centre per litre to milk supplier to it WA-based subsidiary Peters and Brownes . 

Sheep shear via phone may ring true in the future 
Shearing sheep in the future could be as easy a dial a number on your mobile phone . 
Researchers at the University of South Australia be look for a bioactive substance which would cause wool fibre to break simultaneously at a predetermined time . 
The new method of alternative shearing be still a few year away but researcher Michelle Hebard say the possibility be endless . 
`` The animal would receive an implant , this may be in the ear at tag time , '' she say . 
`` That implant would contain a bioactive which would be activate through the mobile . 

Country meet city at Royal Easter Show 
The country have come to the big smoke for the Sydney Royal Easter Show - Australia 's big . 
The Royal Easter Show be an event on an amazing scale - 15,000 animal compete for over half a million dollar in prizemoney over the two week and 900,00 people be expect to come to watch them do it . 

Good turnout for district fundraiser 
Around 200 people turn up in the tiny WA town of Yuna for the district 's big fundraiser at the weekend . 
The Whelarra Regatta start around five year ago and involve small team row handmade raft across a 170 metre dam . 
People crowd the bank to see the team race . 
Carisa Grylls of Chapman Valley be in the UDL team and say it be a great day to show off the community . 
`` Well we do n't really think that we be go to win the race , so we kind of thought that we 'll head towards the bar , '' she say . 

US corner Iraqi wheat market 
As the oil-for-food inquiry drag on , new figure show US wheat export to Iraq over the past year have grow almost five-fold . 
The US export about 500,000 metric tone of wheat to Iraq last marketing year before the UN Volker report on alleged AWB kickback to Iraq lead to a cut-off of AWB shipment and a surge in US export . 
`` For the past year , we 've capture almost three-quarters of the Iraqi wheat market , which be quite large , which be well over 3 million tonne and we 've gain a very large share of the Iraqi rice market , '' Bob Riemenschneider , grain and feed director at the US Foreign Agricultural Services , say . 
The US have export about 2.4 million tonne of wheat to Iraq so far this marketing year and Mr Riemenschneider expect that to increase gradually in coming year . 
Meanwhile the US be ramp up pressure on Australia 's single desk for wheat export , a Federal Government minister begin appear before the Cole inquiry . 
Key member of the US Agricultural Committee Senator Tom Harkin say Australia agree to rein-in trading monopoly in it free trade agreement and the single desk go against world trade rule . 
Spokesman for Senator Harkin , Dave Townsend , say the US be ready to respond to the Cole inquiry 's recommendation . 
`` Keep in mind this be in the context of the WTO negotiation and I think it 's fair to say that everyone be look to have more transparent and open market through any reform in the WTO and have a monopoly in charge of wheat export prevents that from happen , '' he say . 

US dry spell look positive for Aust wheat grower 
A continue dry spell in the United States be look positive for wheat grower here in Australia . 
Monthly supply and demand estimate be release by the United States Department of Agriculture overnight and be largely unchanged . 
But national pool manager for AWB Limited David Johnson say the dry condition be expect to have an impact on America 's hard red winter wheat crop , which be in direct competition with Australia . 
`` We 've already see downgrade in their production forecast in Texas and Oklahoma in the southern state , '' he say . 

Govt know of new Indonesian fruit and veg protocol 
The Federal Government say it have know for almost a year that Indonesia be plan new import protocol for Australian fruit and vegetable . 
The condition be impose last week and grower say the $ 35 million export trade be effectively at a standstill . 
The Federal Government believe Indonesia put in the protocol aim at protect it from fruit fly after receive an infected fruit shipment from another country . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say Australia lodge submission on the protocol last year but do not hear back from Indonesia until the condition be impose on April 4 . 
`` Indonesia do not respond to the submission of Australia and the various other country before decide on a new decree , '' he say . 

Centre to make sure biosecurity expert up to the job 
Making sure the expert be up to scratch will be one of the task of a new biosecurity risk analysis centre in Victoria . 
The Federal Government have commission the University of Melbourne to investigate how Australia assess biosecurity threat and whether it be be do well enough . 
Professor Mark Burgman say part of his job be work out the best way to keep Australia free of disease like foot and mouth or bird flu . 
`` Initially our focus be biosecurity and we will develop tool to help people do that job well , '' he say . 

US beef processor ban from export to Hong Kong 
US meat export to Asia have be deal another blow , with a major processor ban from export beef to Hong Kong . 
A shipment of Cargill beef be find to contain fragment of bone in contravention of export regulation design to prevent the spread of mad cow disease . 
Chief market analyst at Meat and Livestock Australia Peter Weeks say the news will not affect Japan but the late controversy could delay the resumption of US export to Korea . 
`` But outside of Hong Kong be far more significant particularly in Korea where they have link their reopening , the timing of their reopening to instance , to the previous instance as well a the third BSE case in the US and the circumstance surround that , '' he say . 

Brazil beef export no threat to Australian market : producer 
There be claim today that Australia will not have to compete with the world 's big beef export country in our key market for at least a decade . 
Beef producer Chris Ward have be work in Brazil for 20 year and say the country be struggle to increase it 174 million head herd due to a poor currency , lack of infrastructure and low commodity price . 
Mr Ward say the major inhibitor be the presence of foot and mouth disease , which will continue to lock Brazil out of Australia 's major market of Japan , Korea and the US . 
`` In term of compete with Australia in the premium market that Australia play in , I do n't see that , '' he say . 

Resources industry staff problem expect to worsen 
Finding and retain staff be one of the big issue face Australia 's booming resource industry , accord to a new study . 
The People at Work report , publish by the Chamber of Minerals and Energy , say the issue be only go to get bad . 
Author Bernard Salt say the problem in hang onto staff have a lot to do with different value between the generation . 
`` We have always assume that we 're the best country in the world and everyone will automatically want to come to Australia to work , '' he say . 

Pastoralists expect to double cattle production 
Northern Territory pastoralists expect to increase cattle production by 50 per cent within the next 10 year , accord to the first comprehensive survey since the early 1980s . 
Better fencing and water point in central Australia , and improved pasture in the north would result in the increased carrying capacity 
Pastoral extension officer Trudi Oxley say improved weaning rate also mean more production . 
`` We come up with a weaning percentage across the NT a be 71 per cent , so for every hundred cow there be 71 weaners pull off them when they be muster and a mortality rate around 3 per cent , '' she say . 

Leather business suffers from impact of drought , cyclone 
A leather tan business in south-east Queensland have be deal a double blow . 
Murgon Leather have be force to impose water restriction due to the drought , while it main supplier of hide close in the wake of cyclone Larry . 
The Innisfail Meatworks will remain shut until the end of the month . 
General manager James Barbeler say the leather tan business have be force to cut back on staff and production . 

Sheep 's temperament have impact on reproductive rate 
'Crazy ' sheep be more than just a nuisance in the yard - research have find they be be also less fertile and less productive . 
Dr Alex Ball of Sheep Genetics Australia be look at the impact of temperament in trial on his property at Armidale in New South Wales and elsewhere across Australia . 
He say a nervous temperament can have an impact on how well sheep reproduce . 
`` We have just be basically tag animal be they crazy or calm and what it have have be impact on reproductive rate , '' he say . 
`` So we know our own crazy ewe they be probably rear 20 to 30 per cent le lambs and that 's mirror by some very good research in Western Australia . 

Victorian take out young auctioneer award 
A 24-year-old Victorian auctioneer have win the National Young Auctioneers Championship . 
Adam Mountjoy from Mansfield in Victoria 's Alpine region receive the high score after be judge on diction , presentation and manner during a sale of four steer at the Sydney Royal Easter Show . 
He say it be very rewarding after work so hard to prepare for the competition . 
`` Just go through previous video and competition that have be hold and I guess analyse and pick out the good point and some of the good thing to do or try , and do on the day , '' he say . 

Farming grant to aid environmental project 
The Federal Government want to give farmer cash incentive to encourage them to carry out environmental improvement on their land . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have set a deadline of 2008 to implement the scheme , which he say will improve the environment and lift farm productivity . 
Mr McGauran will not say how much the plan will cost but say the National Farmers Federation 's call for a billion dollar in compensation be well off the mark . 
`` No where near in the ball park but before we lock ourselves into position why do n't we find a way forward , '' he say . 
`` We 'll fund some pilot project and I 'm glad to say the state be show some interest and a number be show strong support . 
`` If we work cooperatively we 'll find a way to strike the balance between conservation or environment and production . '' 
The NFF have welcome the announcement , and say the scheme should not be view a a cash handout or production subsidy . 
President Peter Corish say farmer manage 60 per cent of Australia 's land and deserve to be reward for their environmental work . 
`` Farmers be ask to manage that native vegetation at their own cost and we believe firmly if the community want to maintain that native vegetation , certainly that farmer should be reward for manage that , '' he say . 

Court postpone decision on AWB 'apology ' document 
A decision on whether AWB 's so-called 'apology ' document should be make public have be postpone until late April . 
This morning the Federal Court rule it would allow further evidence from AWB support it claim of legal professional privilege . 
The document be initially provide to the Cole inquiry along with other evidence prepare by AWB company secretary Dr Richard Fuller . 
A draft apology , it be write by former manage director Andrew Lindberg , after a US-based public relation specialist advise AWB to over-apologise , to try to counter any corporate scandal relate to the oil-for-food program . 
At this morning 's hearing , the Federal Court hear AWB would provide a second witness statement testify the apology be prepare a part of lawyer-client meeting and a such should remain confidential . 
AWB also question the power of Commissioner Terence Cole to make any ruling around lawyer-client confidentiality , an issue dispute by lawyer act on behalf of the commission . 
A full hearing have be adjourn until April 24 . 
Meanwhile another two senior staff member have resign from AWB . 

Yellow leaf curl virus outbreak hit tomato grow region 
There have be a confirmed outbreak of the tomato yellow leaf curl virus in one of Australia 's major tomato grow region . 
Plant biosecurity officer be in Bundaberg in south-east Queensland to increase surveillance and identify the spread of the virus , discover in a backyard garden . 
The disease be only recently detect in Australia , near Brisbane and can stunt plant growth and slash production . 
Hydroponic grower David Da Tra say grower need to keep the virus carrier at bay . 
`` Just hop we can control or minimise the vector which be the silverleaf greenhouse , '' he say . 

Horticulture industry supplier on notice to cut cost 
Suppliers of material , machinery and other good to the horticulture sector have be place on notice to cut cost to grower . 
Fruit and vegetable grower have launch a class action against cardboard box maker , Amcor , seek up to $ 300 million compensation over alleged price fix on packaging . 
They claim 17,000 grower and some major food manufacturer be overcharge more than $ 700 million for box and pallet . 
Mike Badcock from grower group Ausveg say grower be now look at cost across the sector . 
`` It seem quite suspicious do n't it . America , the fuel price be only half what we pay in Australia , to put a pivot irrigator up in America , it cost you between a third and half what it cost to put one up in Australia , fertiliser be a lot cheap in new Zealand , '' he say . 
`` We 've really get to get to the bottom of a lot of these thing in Australia and find out why it 's cost u more to farm in Australia . '' 
Despite claim farmer be lose bargain power , a new report say sell produce under contract do not place grower at the mercy of big business . 
The report , commission by the Australian Farm Institute , say there have be substantial growth in the level of farm produce sell on the contract system and price be not necessarily fall . 
Report author Mark Barber say it depend on the farmer . 
`` It open up all sort of new opportunity and some farmer will benefit more than others from this , '' he say . 

Riverland citrus grower lock out of Indonesian trade 
Citrus grower in South Australia 's Riverland have be lock out of sell fruit to Indonesia despite be free of fruit fly . 
Australia 's $ 35 million fruit and vegetable trade with Indonesia be at a standstill because of new import protocol design to address fruit fly concern . 
The Riverland 's fruit fly-free status be recognise by other Asian market like Japan and Taiwan but not by Indonesia 's newly impose quarantine protocol . 
Judith Damiani from Australian Citrus Growers say it be an important market . 
`` It 's not one of our large market in term of volume or value but we do send quite a significant amount of mandarin and valencia as well , '' she say . 

Dairy Farmers restructure go ahead despite profit 
Despite post a half-year profit of $ 4.7 million , the Dairy Farmers Co-operative will push on with a restructure involve the closure of four plant . 
The Bomaderry factory , in the south-east of New South Wales , shut down today , while the Toowoomba plant , in southern Queensland , will close by the end of this month with the loss of 12 full and part-time job . 
Chief executive Rob Gordon say change across the business be expect to save $ 42 million a year . 

Locusts swarm across WA wheatbelt 
Locust plague be emerge a a big concern for winter crop in Western Australia this season . 
Locusts have make their way from the wet pastoral region into agricultural area , with farmer now report locust swarm across the wheatbelt . 
Senior entomologist with the Department of Agriculture Kevin Walden say the green feed in the agricultural region could help locust survive for week . 
`` We 're likely to see these locust survive into May but by the time the female be complete their cycle , then number will drop off very quickly , '' he say . 
`` But , a I say , if the break of the season 's early , then there may be a bit of an overlap between crop emerge and locust still fly around . 

Arid zone research group research to focus on desert area 
Pastoralists and researcher from around the country have take the first step towards create a new arid zone research group . 
The group will work independently of state and territory organisation , focus on problem that affect pastoral production in all desert area . 
Mark Ashley from the 21st Century Pastoral Program say initial research will focus on reduce input cost and improve technology for the wool and beef industry . 
`` As it stand at the moment most of the state agency be focus with their particular industry , '' he say . 
`` A lot of these issue be big issue , they go across state boundary . 

Weather blame for hike in fish price 
Fish price in Melbourne have jump by up to 20 per cent in the lead-up to Easter . 
An unusually high number of low pressure system with high wind have keep many small fishing boat off the water . 
Ross McGowan from Seafood Industry Victoria say the small boat catch most of the fish buy by restaurant and which be also popular at Easter . 
`` They generally catch the fish that end up in restaurant and the Victoria market for example , '' he say . 
`` Whiting , flathead , mullet , the whole range of snapper of course . 
`` They 're the sort of fish the bay and inlet fisherman catch , include calamari . 

Pasture shortage limit cattle feedlot expansion 
A shortage of pasture in some province of Indonesia be limit the expansion of small community cattle feedlot . 
Rather than fee grain , villager rely on leucaena , legumes , kapok and even banana stem and leaf . 
It can take up to 12 month to fatten cattle in this way for the lucrative Jakarta market . 
Researcher Maximilian Kapa say one feedlot can support up to 15 remote family in West Timor . 
`` It be a very good market , especially the Jakarta market , '' he say . 
`` Actually the farmer here can not fulfil the market demand because there be a trend that the population of Bali cattle decline here every year due to uncontrolled breeding and minimised management like that . 

I do n't see rorts cable : Howard 
Prime Minister John Howard have tell the Cole inquiry he do not believe he receive or read any cable that warn AWB be involve in sanctions-busting . 
Mr Howard be under tight security when he arrive at the commission to explain when he first know about AWB 's improper payment to the Iraqi regime . 
Blocked-off street , bag search and sniffer dog greet those who enter court two on level five of the building ahead of the Prime Minister 's long-awaited appearance at the Cole inquiry . 
The Prime Minister spend a brisk 42 minute in the witness box . 
When senior counsel assisting , John Agius , ask him to put a date on his knowledge that the Iraqis be rorting the oil-for-food program , Mr Howard say it be probably a year before a speech he give on Iraq to the National Press Club in March , 2003 . 
When ask if he know AWB be involve in that rorting , Mr Howard reply : `` No , I do n't . I have always believe the best of that company . It would never have cross my mind it would have behave corruptly . '' 
Commissioner Cole refuse any cross-examination of the Prime Minister , say it be outside the term of reference . 

Petition 
Meanwhile a petition support by some of the lead light in the legal profession be call for a widening of the inquiry 's term of reference . 
Lawyers , barrister and academic from the University of New South Wales say AWB and the Federal Government may have violate international law by allow bribe to be pay to Saddam Hussein . 
Petition leader Ben Sawell say it be now clear the power of the Cole inquiry be too narrow . 
`` There be a great deal of concern in the legal profession about the conduct of the Australian Government in all of this business of the oil-for-food scandal , '' he say . 

Wine grape dump a oversupply woe hit grower 
Tens of thousand of tonne of Riverland wine grape will be dump on the ground or leave to rot on the vine this season because of the national oversupply . 
The South Australian grower have be leave with no market for their fruit after some have contract suspend , while others be not able to renew their agreement with winery . 
The region 's lost income could total $ 65 million . 
Loxton grower Glenn Arnold say the situation be desperate . 
`` We 're just try to survive , '' he say . 
`` Everybody say there 's swing and roundabout and you know good time be follow by bad time , bad time be usually follow by good time ... we 've just get to hang in there . 

WA wine producer secure large UK contract 
Palandri wine of Margaret River in Western Australia have just secure the state 's single large export ever into the United Kingdom . 
Eighty thousand case will go to 1,800 British supermarket . 
Palandri 's Gordon Grant say WA be be recognise a produce a unique , quality wine for under $ 24 . 
He say the contract be significant for bulk producer of generic wine . 
`` It 's really start to gain ground , the buyer in particular be star to see Western Australia a something very different to the other material they have get on their shelf , '' he say . 

Farmers environmental grant 'pork barrel ' 
The Federal Government 's plan to pay farmer to good manage the land have be label a `` veiled production subsidy '' and a `` pork barrel '' by a Canberra think tank . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran want to give farmer cash payment to well protect the land and lift their productivity . 
He believe farmer be carry an unfair share of the cost of manage the environment and should be reward for carry out project which benefit the entire community . 
But the Australia Institute 's Andrew Macintosh say the Government have a poor record of deliver environmental project and in allocate funding to regional area . 
`` What we 've see with the Natural Heritage Trust be that the program 's turn into a massive pork barrel that 's dress up in green clothing and that 's my big fear with this , '' he say . 
Mr McGauran say the program will not become a spending black hole and deny the proposed payment would become production subsidy . 

Paying more for early child care an option , say association 
Regional Australia be have to think creatively to overcome shortage of childcare place and funding . 
Cost and access be still big problem for many farming family who now rely on a second income to make ends meet . 
Lynne Wannon , from the National Association of Community-based Childcare Services , say both parent and government need to consider pay more for early childhood care . 
`` There be different model around , there be mobile service where they have outreach program , '' she say . 
`` A van will go out into a farm community and child can come there but they might only get one day a fortnight of a program . 

Easter gift may post disease risk : AQIS 
The Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) be warn that Easter gift from overseas , such a paint or blow egg , could spread bird flu to human and bird . 
Carson Creagh from AQIS say the service will seize hundred of `` at risk '' item this weekend include egg , feather and nest make of dried grapevine , and straw . 
He say many come from Eastern Europe or the Mediterranean and could introduce bird flu , Newcastle disease or other virus capable of devastate Australia 's poultry industry . 
`` The obvious one be avian influenza which can be transmit on egg , '' he say . 

Croc capture in Katherine main street 
While the floodwaters be subside in the Northern Territory , it be take longer to remove the visit wildlife . 
Last night , a metre-long freshwater crocodile be capture in the main street of Katherine 
And at Mataranka Homestead , a hundred kilometre south , Deborah Moore say her place have become an ark . 
`` There 's lot of kangaroo and peacock and snake and quite a few crocodile around as well , '' she say . 

Priority scheme in place for dwindle Q fever vaccine supply 
Meatworkers will be give priority access to the last remaining dos of Q fever vaccine to protect against the debilitating disease that be spread to human through contact with infected feral and domestic livestock . 
This year 's demand for the vaccine be expect to exceed current supply , and fresh stock can not be produce until a new lab open early next year . 
Dr Rachel David , from CSL Pharmaceuticals , the only company in the world that make Q Vax , have now set up a scheme to reduce the impact of the looming shortage . 
`` We 've put in place a prioritisation system so that people involve directly in meat processing will be able to contact CSL and get access to the vaccine a a priority , '' she say . 

Abattoirs give green light for halal beef export to Malaysia 
Three Australian abattoir , one in Queensland and two in Victoria , have be give approval to send halal beef back into the Malaysian market . 
Last August , Malaysia suspend beef import from Australia due to concern that slaughter method do not meet Islamic standard . 
The general manager of Norvic Foods , Jon Hayes , say approval be receive to resume beef export from the company 's Wodonga abattoir after religious and technical auditor inspect the site . 
`` Malaysia be only take a very small percentage of the Australian beef and it 's another market that Australia need , '' he say . 
`` We ca n't consume what we produce for 20 million people and we need the total global scene , and Malaysia be a very important market . '' 

Shareholders vote not to rebuild Norply factory 
The Kyogle community , on the New South Wales north coast , have have it bad fear confirm with Norply Timbers decide not to rebuild it factory after a fire last year . 
Up until last September 's devastating fire , the Norply factory employ about 140 people , make it one of the most significant employer in a town with a population of 4,000 . 
There be hope that the company would eventually rebuild on it exist site but those have now be dash . 
Norply 's 30 shareholder meet earlier this week , when a majority vote to declare a dividend rather than rebuild the mill . 

Little central Aust critter become a popular pet 
It might not be the Easter bunny but a little critter from central Australia be prove a hit in the Top End . 
The spinifex hopping mouse have become a popular pet in Katherine . 
And a vet Sam McMahon explain , you can not cuddle them , but with their big eye , kangaroo leg , and basil brush tail , they be great to watch . 
`` They 're a very interesting pet , they can live quite happily in you know a reasonable sort of set up , '' he say . 
`` And they 're very interesting to watch . They dig hole , they dig tunnel , they bind around , they 're quite interesting to sort of sit there and stare at . 

Govt call for Q fever vaccine tender 
The Federal Government have call for tender to produce Q fever vaccine a supply of the drug reach critically low level . 
Q fever be a debilitate disease which mainly affect meat and livestock worker , and be transmit through infected animal . 
Though the tender process should be complete by next month , the Government say it be unlikely a new supplier will be find in time to prevent a vaccine shortage . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have criticise CSL for end production and bulldoze the vaccine plant . 
`` The Government have call for expression of interest for a tender to produce long term supply of Q [ fever ] vaccine , it may well be that CSL will be a tenderer but there may be other company a well , '' he say . 

Key witness to front Cole inquiry 
The Cole inquiry examine AWB 's role in the oil-for-food scandal have be adjourn to a date to be fix after hear evidence last week from John Howard , Alexander Downer and Mark Vaile . 
But there be at least one key witness still to come . 
With public hearing all but finalise before Easter , senior counsel assist John Agius inform Commissioner Terence Cole he would require him to sit again for several day after Anzac Day . 
Mr Agius tell the inquiry he be make arrangement for a witness to appear before the commission . 
He later confirm that witness to be Felicity Johnston , who work for the UN 's Office of Iraq program . 
Mr Agius say the commission have obtain clearance from the United Nations but be still go through necessary protocol with the British Foreign Office . 

Extreme weather event affect rural commodity outlook 
Cyclones and hurricane continue to affect the outlook for rural commodity across mining , wheat and sugar market . 
The late Commodity Price Index from the National Australia Bank be predict a slight easing in rural price over the next two year , with sugar , beef , wheat and cotton all expect to perform well . 
Agribusiness economist Skye Dixon say extreme weather event have a big affect on rural price . 
`` They do certainly have an impact because so much of rural commodity price be derive from what 's happen with supply , '' she say . 

NSW drought worsens 
New South Wales be slip further back into drought , with 46 per cent of the State now drought declare . 
That be up eight percentage point on last month . 
Only 20 per cent New South Wales be consider satisfactory for rainfall . 
But the State 's Primary Industries Minister , Ian Macdonald , say despite worsen condition , farmer be optimistic about a big winter crop than last year . 
`` The State need widespread rain particularly in the north but also many area in the south-west which be major crop region need a good downpour fairly quickly , '' he say . 

Tomato plant virus spread 
There be confirmation today that the tomato yellow leaf curl virus be spread in one of Australia 's major production area . 
The virus stunt tomato growth and drastically limit yield . 
Discovered for the first time in Australia a couple of week ago in Brisbane , it have now be identify on two commercial property near Bundaberg . 
Inspections be be plan in other Queensland tomato grow region . 
Chris Adriaansen from the Department of Primary Industries say it be prove difficult to trace the origin of the virus . 
`` This be what we 're find a we 're go through all the property that we 're get positive diagnosis on - there 's no common linkage in term they 're not use the same supply of seedling , they 're not use the same supplier of anything , there 's no other linkage , '' he say . 

Protesters vow to continue gold mine protest 
Environmentalists be continue to picket a New South Wales gold mine over the use of cyanide , which they claim will permanently poison the local water supply . 
The Lake Cowal open pit mine , in the state 's central west , begin process recently but operation be shut down yesterday and a delivery of cyanide have reportedly be delay . 
Eight protester have be charge with trespass but Graham Dunstan from Cyanide Watch say the protest will continue until the mine be close . 
`` This mining company have be grant water lease by the NSW Government to pump up 3,650 megalitres a year for this cyanide operation , '' he say . 
`` They leave this water behind permanently poison . Now in a time of drought give people the equivalent of a Dubbo 's water supply each year be profligate . '' 

Search for grapevine genome move a step closer 
An Italian team of scientist have produce the world 's first draft of the grapevine genome sequence . 
The work , on the pinot noir variety , could lead to the development of high yielding , disease resistant grape that still make good tasting wine . 
Project leader with CSIRO Plant Industries , Doctor Mark Thomas , have be in close contact with the Italian team and say it be an important step towards the final grapevine gene map . 
`` Once the genome sequence be complete it will be the foundation I think for 21st century grape research a it will allow u to understand what gene be involve in grape quality and those gene that also control fruitfulness and yield , '' he say . 
In Australia , the CSIRO have be work with a group in France try to isolate the gene responsible for powdery mildew resistance and downey mildew resistance . 

Growers satisfy with grape price 
Riverland grape grower who supply to wine giant McGuigan Simeon say they be satisfy with the fruit price determine by an independent analyst . 
The analyst be call in after a dispute arose over price for grape , many which have already be deliver to the winery . 
Chris Byrne , from the Riverland Wine Grape Growers Association , say grower have be expect to receive the low price . 

Floodwaters affect search for banana prawn 
Floodwaters and muddy river sediment be make it hard for trawler in the Gulf of Carpentaria this season . 
The banana prawn harvest begin on Saturday , across the northern fishery . 
Newfishing Australia 's Steven Valentine say the fleet be be force to use depth sounder to find the prawn . 
`` With the water clarity not be a it be - not very good , due to the mud slick - and we ca n't spot the mud boil , boat be have to rely heavily on their sounder , which mean we do n't cover the area quite so efficiently , '' he say . 
`` So it 's be a pretty slow start to the season . 
`` Traditionally we road freight them out of Karumba . But , at the moment , with all the road close , we have n't get anywhere to send them to . 
`` Hopefully within the next four to five day , the river will drop enough so that the road will be open and we can truck prawn out . '' 
The Newfishing Australia fleet be hop to catch up to 60 tonne of banana prawn per trawler this season . 

Bureaucracy to blame for closure , scallop fisher say 
Tasmanian scallop fisher say they be feed up with a bureaucracy that have lock them out of the Bass Strait scallop fishery for the past six year . 
Now the Federal Government say the fishery will remain closed for another three year . 
Scallop fisherman Peter Stegmann say scientific advice show a limited season be viable and blame overlap Commonwealth and state fishing jurisdiction for the problem . 
He say part of the $ 220 million earmark for industry restructure should be spend sort out the mess . 

Study to focus on abalone habitat 
A study on abalone habitat be about to get under way in south-west Victoria . 
The information collect will be use to ensure the industry be manage sustainably . 
Harry Peeters , from the Western Abalone Divers Association , say aerial imagery , sonar device and underwater video will be use to help scientifically describe the seabed . 
`` Australia have one of the last sustainable wild catch abalone industry in the world , '' he say . 
`` Most of the others have be fish to extinction . 

Nurseries to encourage kid to garden 
The nursery industry be set out to re-educate Australians about how to garden . 
Market research have find gardening be lose market share from change lifestyle , big house , small garden and a loss of skill . 
The industry be fight back and will soon launch a KidsGrow program , where local nursery can work with school to encourage child to garden . 
Jenny Lambert , from the Nursery and Garden Industry Association , say gardening have social , educational and environmental benefit . 
`` The industry be concern that the strength of the community knowledge about gardening have drop over the year and we 're worried about where the next generation of gardener be come from , '' she say . 

Global oil price continue rise 
Global oil price continue to climb to record height a Australia 's grain grower prepare for this year 's planting season . 
Last night New York benchmark crude oil close at more than $ US70 a barrel for the first time in 23 year of trading . 
Commodity analyst Tobin Gorey say running cost and fertiliser price will rise far but there could be more demand for wheat and canola to make replacement biofuels . 
`` The cost be actually high so people need to be compensate farmer and so on for produce it so it be profitable otherwise they wo n't stay in the business , '' he say . 
`` But the other side of that too be that demand for thing like ethanol or biodiesel that create further demand for oilseed and grain as well . 
`` Perhaps that can also help boost the price and be perhaps already influence market now to a small degree . '' 
The combination of rise fuel and fertiliser cost be cause for concern for many farmer . 
Graingrowers in South Australia 's Mallee tell Kerrie Lush cut back on cropping be not an option and they be look at other way to reduce cost . 
`` We 're certainly not cut back on any acreage we 're sow but David 's certainly go to try and do as much direct seed without work up anything to save a bit of fuel that way , '' Val Gibbs from Wunkar say . 
She say fertiliser price be also far more expensive than last year . 
`` We have trialled put zinc on through seed dress instead of through fertiliser so that save a bit of money that way . '' 

Call for bureaucrat or MP to act a AWB 'moral conscience ' 
The Queensland Nationals be call for change at the top of AWB to help protect the single desk for wheat export . 
Member for Hinkler Paul Neville want a bureaucrat or government MP on AWB 's board to act a it `` moral conscience '' to stop future kickback controversy . 
Mr Neville say the appointment would prevent question over AWB 's integrity if it retain the single desk . 
`` It 's important that it probity be above any form of suspicion , '' he say . 
`` For that reason I 'd be more comfortable if we have a government appointee or someone from the public service on that board . '' 
Meanwhile tough international wheat marketing condition have be reflect in AWB 's first payment to grower from the 2005-06 national pool . 
The dividend of just over $ 30 per metric tonne for Australian premium white ( APW ) grade wheat represent just 16 per cent of the total price grower can expect to receive . 
Tony Smith from Plumgrove Commodity Trading say first payment be usually much high but buyer be not prepared to pay high grain price . 

Poppy grower contract slash 
Pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline have slash Tasmanian poppy grower contract by 90 per cent . 
Almost 500 poppy grower supply seed to the company with the lose contract worth between $ 10 million and $ 12 million . 
The company say there be a depression in world market price and continue oversupply . 
Company researcher Dr Mike Doyle say the extraction plant will continue to run on exist stock although the crop reduction will be for only one year . 

Fruity fly precaution stall fruit , vege export to Indonesia 
Fruit and vegetable export to Indonesia remain at a standstill , after the introduction of new import protocol to prevent an outbreak of fruit fly . 
Exports of grape , citrus , apple and pear be worth $ 35 million , but the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service say it have not issue any export permit on product affect by the new protocol , since they be impose two week ago . 
Australian grower say the condition of spraying and inspection make export to Indonesia uncommercial and be an effectively a ban on their produce . 
A trade official be dispatch to Jakarta last week , and the Federal Government have now ask Indonesia to urgently revert to the previous import protocol . 

Federal Govt fund target sugar industry 
The Federal Government have hand over $ 36 million in the late round of sugar industry reform . 
Bundaberg Sugar will build a fertiliser production plant at it Tableland Mill , while the Proserpine Cooperative Sugar Milling Association will construct a plant to make a chemical from a cane by-product . 

WA banana send east 
A small number of Western Australian banana have be send to the eastern state after a sharp drop in demand . 
After cyclone Larry destroy the Queensland crop , WA grower vow to stay loyal to their local customer . 
But with banana sell for about $ 6 a kilogram , shopper decide to leave fruit on the shelf . 
Kevin Leahy from Carnarvon 's Sweeter Banana Co-operative say send fruit east will not become a regular practice . 
`` A lot of banana come in from Queensland that have come down obviously with the cyclone , they clean them up and send them over and there be no demand , '' he say . 

Push on for high capital gain tax threshold 
There be call for the capital gain tax ( CGT ) threshold to be lift to at least $ 10 million to protect farmer . 
Combined asset worth more than $ 5 million mean farmer can not access small business concession on the tax . 
It be start to hit farm family when they try to expand , relocate or retire , because of rise property price . 
South Australian accountant Peter Hayes be part of a group that be lobby federal politician to increase the threshold , which have not change for seven year . 
`` One client of mine want to relocate and their combine asset be in the order of $ 6 million , so they do n't comply with the CGT small business threshold and for them to move be go to cost them $ 1 million in tax , '' he say . 

Canada record 5th mad cow case 
Canada have confirm it fifth case of mad cow disease . 
But it be unlikely to cause further trade restriction with the United States . 
US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns say he expect no change in import of Canadian beef and cattle under 30 month , after mad cow disease show up in a six-year-old British Columbia dairy cow . 
But Greg Doud , with the National Cattlemen 's Beef Association , say base on the cow 's age there be a concern over the effectiveness of Canada 's ban on feed cow part to cow , think to spread the disease . 
`` Having the second animal that seem to be after the feed ban go into place in August of 1997 ... do seem to suggest that there be a feed ban compliance issue , '' he say . 
The US resume import of young Canadian animal and their meat last year , but still prohibit trade in old one . 

Mutton make comeback in UK 
If you think mutton be a cut of meat that go out with the war year and the depression , think again . 
Sheep producer in the UK have start a Mutton Renaissance Club to improve mutton 's image , which could increase Australia 's already boom export market . 
John Thorley from the UK National Sheep Association say they have have a lot of help from their high profile patron . 
`` Most people have give up on mutton a long , long time ago and then one or two people , his Royal Highness Prince Charles particularly , decide it be time we move this thing on a bit , '' he say . 

Govt look to hot rock power potential 
The Victorian Government hop hot granite rock find underground will become a new source of green energy . 
The rock heat water pump into the ground , turn it into steam , which be then use to create power . 
The State Government have release 31 exploration permit across the state . 
Oil industry consultant Terry Donohoe say the interest in hot rock a a source of geothermal energy be grow . 
`` We know that Japan have get hot rock and no other form of energy so the Japanese be very interested , '' he say . 
`` Also of course in South Australia , and recently the Queensland Government let out some exploration permit . 

Urban dog owner take lead in sheepdog trial 
City dog owner be start to replace retired farmer on the sheepdog trial circuit . 
The expert say they have notice a big change , with city pet owner more interested in put their dog and three sheep through an obstacle course , than compete in a traditional dog show . 
Seven-time Australian representative Malcolm Taylor say while sheepdog be be use less on the land , their popularity in the city be grow . 
`` But I think the future for dog trialing be go to alter quite a bit and you 'll see far more city dweller that 'll have a working dog in the city , '' he say . 

Iraq finalise wheat purchase 
The Iraqi Grains Board say it have finalise a $ 100 million wheat purchase from Australia after almost two month of negotiation . 
Although the three company sell the wheat say they have not yet sign a contract , the Grains Council of Australia believe term have be agree . 
The head of the Iraq Grains Board Khalil Aassi have tell reporter the country will buy 350,000 tonne of wheat at $ 190 a tonne from the Wheat Australia consortium . 
The deal be broker by Trade Minister Mark Vaile , who visit Baghdad in February to save the Iraq wheat trade , after it announce it would no longer deal with monopoly exporter AWB because of the oil-for-food kickback scandal . 
The deal with Wheat Australia , which include ABB , GrainCorp and Cooperative Bulk Handling , break AWB 's hold over wheat export . 
But the Grains Council 's David Ginns say the deal will not be a lucrative one . 
`` As we know , time cost money and they certainly spend a lot of time and money on finalise this deal , '' he say . 
Australia have traditionally supply around a quarter of Iraq 's wheat , make it Australia 's third large wheat market . 

Critical month 
Wheat exporter AWB say the next few month be critical for the global grain market , a weather condition determine the size of the world crop . 
Australian grower have already receive a low than expect return on the 2005-06 crop , largely due to fluctuate demand for hard wheat variety and tough international marketing condition . 
And general manager of AWB International , Sarah Scales , say global demand remain subdue . 
`` I think the next couple of month be very critical , I think it 's make or break as far a the world wheat market go for the next 12 month , depend on particularly rain condition in the hard red winter wheat belt of the United States , '' she say . 

Graincorp to close 100 silo 
Grain handle company Graincorp have confirm it will close around 100 silo in the eastern state a part of a company restructure . 
As the major grain handler for the eastern state , Graincorp currently maintain 320 silo site but now plan to close almost a third . 
Queensland will lose 23 , Victoria 32 , with 38 to go in New South Wales . 
Workers at the silo be tell about the closure yesterday , but be also tell their job be safe . 
Graincorp say the change be in line with what grower want , which be well rate on rail service and a trend to use large full-service silo . 
Rodeo organiser in Tasmania say they will not call off a national title competition this weekend despite vandal destroy an arena . 
Only day ago the power box at the Harveydale Rodeo Arena be smash to piece and some time in the past 48 hour vandal enter the private property with wire cutter and shred the perimeter fence . 
Rodeo Tasmania claim the offender be people drive to action by a high-profile campaign against rodeo 's in recent time . 
That campaign have be spearhead by Against Animal Cruelty Tasmania , which say it have nothing with the vandalism but concede their campaign may have spur others into action . 
`` The public see what go on at event they would n't normally go to but somebody out there may have be compel to take direct action after they 've see disturb footage that we 've ween on television , '' spokeswoman Emma Haswell say . 

Money flow at Easter yearling sale 
The Easter yearling sale in Sydney have have a record $ 43 million opening day . 
Seven horse sell for more than $ 1 million each , with a top price of $ 2 million for a colt by Redoute 's Choice . 
The horse will be train by David Hayes in Victoria . 
Jonathon Darcy from William Inglis and Son say the buoyant world economy have see an increase in overseas buyer . 
`` The strength of the stock market in both Tokyo and in Hong Kong have really drive this in the last 12 to 18 month , '' he say . 
`` Five year ago both of those economy be under a fair bit of pressure follow the SARS outbreak . 

Feed run low on stock route 
The long paddock be get crowd around Narrabri , in north-west New South Wales , where 25,000 head of livestock be search for feed on the stock route . 
Twelve thousand cattle and 13,000 sheep have be on the road in recent week , with the route almost at full capacity . 
Jamie Maddox from the Narrabri Rural Lands Protection Board , say it will be a harsh winter for many grazier already short of feed and water . 
`` We receive some good late January/early February rain , which give u a good body of feed but it 's almost all disappear now and it 's certainly become dry , '' he say . 
`` A few dam in certain area be dry up quickly and become boggy . 

'Pressure on negotiator ' to secure good market access 
Sheepmeat producer be confident their late round of talk with the European Commission will lead to a big slice of the export market for Australia . 
Industry delegate have meet with EU commissioner in Brussels to push Australia 's case ahead of world trade talk later this month . 
Ian Feldtman from the Sheepmeats Council say the pressure be now on trade negotiator to clinch a deal . 
`` The message we 're give to our Government be that the decision that be make during this round be something that our industry be go to have to live with for at least the next 10 year , '' he say . 

Aust to increase agricultural aid to East Timor 
Australia 's direct involvement in rebuild East Timor with agricultural aid be set to increase . 
The Australian Ambassador to East Timor say more than $ 40 million will be invest in aid this year , with agriculture represent $ 1.5 million . 
Margaret Twomey say a new proposal aim to improve water harvesting and sanitation for remote community across the rugged nation . 
`` And we be now in talk with the Government and specifically the Prime Minister about a much big , more ambitious program , that would last up to 10 year , cost somewhere up to $ 50 million , to get clean water and sanitation to 80 per cent of the people in this country , '' she say . 

Texas weather could impact on Aust cotton price 
Prolonged dry condition in the American state of Texas could see a lift in cotton price in Australia . 
A global oversupply of cotton and the high Australian dollar be hurt return for grower at present , with price well below $ 400 a bale . 
But Cliff White from Queensland Cotton say if the situation in the United States deteriorate , price for next season could rise above $ 430 a bale . 
`` I think it 's difficult to see significant change to current crop price , however over the next few week attention be go to be turn more so to the new crop production prospect in the northern hemisphere and at the moment there be one or two concern on the horizon , '' he say . 

Fruit fly outbreak could affect Tas market access 
A fruit fly outbreak have be detect at the Northern Territory 's large table grape producer . 
The central Australian town of Ti-Tree report an isolated outbreak last month but recent test now show the pest have spread to nearby Territory Grapes . 
Horticulture advisory officer Geoff Kenna say the finding could affect market access to Tasmania . 

Apple packhouse set for $ 2m upgrade 
Australia 's big apple packhouse be launch a multi-million dollar upgrade . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran will unveil the $ 2 million upgrade of the Batlow Fruit Co-operative in southern NSW which feature Australia 's first automatic blemish sort system for apple . 
The technology have be import from New Zealand and second grade fruit be identify electronically and then remove from the premium packing line . 
It be expect to increase it efficiency . 
The grower-owned co-operative be establish in 1922 and produce 6,000 bin of apple each year . 
The district 's grower be suffer after price fell last year under the weight of a big crop and import apple juice . 
It be well recognise that the gap between city-slickers and their country cousin be grow . 
But farmer be out to restore their image by hold a National Farm Day next month . 
Victorian wool producer Debbie Bain say farm gate will be open to city people to help them good understand decision make on a working property . 
`` If we have somebody up here and we be bring sheep into drench them , why do we give them these chemical ? We 're shove these chemical down their throat , what for ? '' she say . 
`` But when you explain about worm burden and and the detrimental [ effect ] that worm have on sheep , they 'll suddenly understand a little bit more about chemical use in animal . '' 

Drought program speed up aid application 
Farmers will get faster access to drought assistance under new change unveil by state and federal agriculture minister today . 
They be the first in a raft of drought assistance change farmer hope to see over the next six month . 
The National Agricultural Monitoring System ( NAMS ) be expect to slash the time it take to gather the information farmer need to lodge a drought assistance application . 
It will provide instant online rainfall , soil moisture , crop yield and commodity price information , streamline contact between farmer and local , state and federal government . 
Vice-president of the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) Charles Burke say there need to be fundamental change to the way drought assistance be deliver but this be a positive first step that will help farmer . 
`` It 'll really give an overall picture of say one particular region and how it 's perform in a drought , '' he say . 

Money launder law change 'draconian ' 
Rural bank branch and agency could be under threat from propose change to federal money launder legislation . 
While the law be design to target organised crime , a report by the Chartered Secretaries of Australia say it will be too hard for many small bank agency to comply . 
Chief executive Tim Sheehy say bank will need to have personal contact with client , there will be change to identification requirement and big fine . 
`` They be draconian , they 're unfortunately a one size fit all approach , '' he say . 
`` The way that the propose legislation be , there 's no difference in penalty for a fairly minor transgression or a major $ 10 million one if you 're an agent . 
`` [ When ] you 're face with the risk of a major penalty for a small error , you 're probably go to pull out of the business . '' 

Truck driver 'living below poverty line ' 
New research show the family of truck driver be suffer from record fuel price , drought and long working hour . 
More than 70 per cent of the nation 's transport fleet be make up of small operator and the report by the Transport Women of Australia Association say tough time be be felt everywhere . 
Spokeswoman Pam McMillan say the study back up anecdotal evidence . 
`` We do find that some operator be live below the poverty line and more than what we would like to consider , '' she say . 
`` They might have a nice house but perhaps ca n't afford to buy decent grocery every week and it 's not that they 're be frivolous , it 's just that the money 's not out there . 

Debate intensifies about fuel alternative a oil price rise 
Oil price be not get any good with the price of West Texas crude jumping again last night to $ US72 a barrel . 
As price go up , debate be intensify about fuel alternative . 
Bruce Robinson from the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas say Australia could halve it transport fuel usage by minimise it dependence on car . 
He say fuel tax should be increase similar to the system introduce by former prime minister Margaret Thatcher in United Kingdom in the 1980s . 
`` If we continue to provide very cheap petrol and to give excise free petrol to everyone and subsidise it a happens in Queensland then we be just go to continue down the oil dependence [ road ] , '' he say . 
`` The enormous legacy Margaret Thatcher have leave to Britain , she 's give the price signal that oil be go to be more expensive then they be not nearly so dependent on cheap fuel a we be . '' 
The high price of crude oil be cause investor to take a close look at the biofuels industry . 
A new ethanol plant open in the US every 10 day and around the world million of dollar be be pour into biofuel project to reduce dependence on oil . 
Agribusiness investment adviser Shane Kelly say Australian investor be also keen to back a local ethanol industry . 
`` It 's fair to say that a oil price increase , the interest in ethanol plant have increase markedly , '' he say . 

Cyclone cause minor damage 
There have be big rainfall in the wake of cyclone Monica in far north Queensland . 
The category three cyclone cross the north-east coast late yesterday but do not appear to have cause too much damage . 
Cyclone Monica follow almost exactly the same path a cyclone Ingrid which rip through the region about 13 month ago . 
Monica hit land just south of the Lockhart Aboriginal community . 
Very few commercial fishing boat be shelter in Lockhart River 's mangrove and so far there have be no report of major incident . 
On cattle property in the cyclone 's path the strong wind bring down some branch , tree , shed and fence but overall damage have be minor . 
Tom Burns manage Orchid Creek station and he say his big problem be find his dog . 

Wheat bug discovery prompt question 
Australian apple grower say the discovery of the wheat bug in Holland and Belgium raise new question about the risk pose by New Zealand apple import . 
Biosecurity Australia be consider 34 submission on the proposal to allow kiwi apple into Australia . 
Chairman of Apple and Pear Australia Darral Ashton say the wheat bug be endemic in New Zealand and should be give great consideration . 
`` News out of both Belgium and Holland that that wheat bug have be find and they be say it arrive hitchhike on New Zealand apple or New Zealand apple packaging , '' he say . 
`` Whether that 's true or not I do n't know but it just highlight the concern that one of the process have to be fumigation because while wheat bug may not affect the Batlow or the Australian apple and pear industry it would sure a hell play havoc on the Australian wheat industry . '' 

New company secretary appoint to AWB 
AWB have appoint a new company secretary , lawyer Logan Armstrong . 
The appointment come after the resignation of Dr Richard Fuller and Jim Cooper a company secretary last week . 

Broadacre grain grower want more debate over herbicide 
Western Australian broadacre grain grower say they will fight to keep use the herbicide 2,4-D Ester to control summer weed . 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority have suggest deregistering some form of 2,4-D after claim chemical drift have affect other crop and the environment . 
But farmer say they have successfully manage the herbicide for 50 year with safeguard to protect horticultural and agricultural crop . 
Phil Patterson from the Gnowangerup area of the great southern grain belt say there need to be more debate . 
`` Let 's sit back for a minute . Ester have be around for what 50 or 60 year and I 'm get a bit sick of these expert in Canberra try to put their idea on the rest of the world , '' he say . 
`` I mean let them have a look at what be do in WA in the eighty and work from there . 

Better price expect for barley grower 
Barley grower in South Australia can expect slightly good price for their grain this year . 
Malting barley price will only rise by a couple of dollar but feed price be expect to jump by up to $ 25 a tonne to $ 170 . 

Lack of skilled worker limit new water project 
Attempts to fix Australia 's water shortage problem be suffer because a scarcity of skilled worker . 
Delegates at a National Water Conference in Alice Springs have hear that a lack of qualified expert be limit the development of new water save project . 
Chief executive of the Australian Water Association Chris Davis say the most severe shortage be in the science and engineering field . 
`` Most organisation tend to be populate by middle-aged men who be about to retire in a year or two 's time so we 're star down the barrel of an even bad shortage in a couple of year from now , '' he say . 

Salt interception project to benefit Murray River 
A project to stop thousand of tonne of salt enter the Murray River have just be open near Kerang in north-west Victoria . 
The $ 13 million salt interception project will pump saline groundwater from Pyramid Creek into evaporation basin . 
The salt will then be commercially harvest instead of flow into the Murray . 
Goulburn Murray Water 's Carl Mather say the project will benefit both farmer and the environment . 
`` The scheme will stop approximately 22,000 tonne of salt reach the River Murray , '' he say . 

Record price set for yearling at Sydney sale 
The thoroughbred industry have set a new record price for a yearling at the Easter sale in Sydney . 
South African trainer Charles Laird pay $ 3 million for a Redoutes ' Choice colt last night , beat the previous record of $ 2.5 million . 
The record come a a surprise for the breeder . 
It be the best ever yearling sale on Australian soil . 
After two day of selling , buyer have spend $ 68 million on 240 lot , with the average price at more than $ 100,000 above the previous year . 
Breeder of the $ 3 million colt Arthur Mitchell of the Yarraman Park Stud in the Hunter Valley agree there be some luck need but say breeding judgment help . 
`` We start to get a bit of a whisper that the few Redoutes ' be go quite well and we need a stallion with a bit of size , '' Mr Mitchell say . 

Govt 's hand tie in water trading dispute 
The Federal Government say it be powerless to intervene in a cross-border dispute which be hold up water reform . 
Three state have be fin million of dollar for fail to meet agreed target on interstate water trading . 
Victoria , New South Wales and South Australia will have $ 10 million , $ 13 million and $ 3 million in competition payment withhold respectively , open up a new row between them and the Federal Government . 
South Australia and Victoria claim they be be punish for New South Wales fail to agree on their trading model but the Iemma Government say it have meet all of it water trading requirement . 
National Water Commission chairman Ken Matthews will not buy into which state be responsible for the hold-up . 
`` I 'm not take side among the state , all three state have be work hard , '' he say . 
But Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull say the Federal Government have no constitutional power to end the state stand-off . 
`` That be the constitutional reality , '' he say . 
Victoria and South Australia have agree on an exchange rate system of open-border trading but New South Wales be call for a different model which take into account it low security water entitlement . 
Minister for the River Murray in South Australia Karlene Maywald say she be bitterly disappointed because an agreement on water trading reform have be reach with Victoria . 
`` We believe that 's grossly unfair and we think that South Australia be be dock $ 3 million when we have do everything we can to ensure that our border be open , '' she say . 

Govt urge to buy Snowy Hydro scheme 
The Federal Government be be call on to buy Snowy Hydro and keep it a a publicly-owned water and power asset . 
The call be unanimously make at an angry meeting of 350 people at Cooma , in southern New South Wales last night , who be oppose to the joint state and federal sell-off . 
The scheme be expect to earn $ 3 billion if the sale go ahead this year , but Snowy River Mayor Richard Wallace say public ownership be much more important . 

Incentives vital to NSW timber industry : Visy exec 
The timber industry say regional development will suffer if tax break for plantation be scrap in next month 's Budget . 
The Federal Government be review tax benefit for timber plantation under the Managed Investment Scheme . 
But the chief executive officer of Visy Industries , Harry Debney , say retain the incentive be vital to plan to build a second timber mill in southern New South Wales . 
`` We do need a long term sustainable timber industry and the investment scheme have really encourage that softwood planting , '' he say . 
`` So I guess if the region and the country want another for example $ 400 million investment in Tumut that be really fundamental to it . 

GrainCorp 's silos closure plan anger farm group 
Anger be mount among eastern state ' farm group about plan by GrainCorp to close more than 100 grain receival site . 
Some farmer say the decision will force them to travel up to 100 kilometre more to deliver grain . 
North-west Victorian farmer Rod Bishop say he will need to purchase another truck to be able to cart grain more efficiently . 
And he say others might be leave with no choice but to spend hundred of thousand of dollar to set up on-farm grain storage . 
`` I personally do n't like it that much because you have to market the grain , keep the weevil out and all those issue come into it but you certainly could n't discount do it , that 's for sure , '' he say . 
GrainCorp chairman Don Taylor say the company will consider keep the silo open if grower can guarantee supply . 
The grain handler have close most site which process less than 5,000 tonne of grain . 
Mr Taylor say GrainCorp 's also willing to look at sell old infrastructure to farmer but do not think grower will be interested . 

Wool industry 's survival dependent on young shopper : designer 
Enticing young shopper to wool be critical to the industry 's survival , accord to the head of lead men 's fashion house , Ermenegildo Zegna . 
The company will hold it annual award in Melbourne tonight for wool producer from Argentina , South Africa , New Zealand and Australia . 
Count Paolo Zegna say his challenge be to get his daughter interested in wear more wool . 
`` What worry me the most be not what have happen until now , but what could happen in the future if the young generation of consumer do n't get the message from wool , '' he say . 

Average rainfall expect over next few month 
With many farmer look anxiously for the autumn break , the late prediction suggest average rainfall be likely from May to July across the country . 

Monica gather strength 
Tropical cyclone Monica continue to gather strength a it move steadily west over the Gulf of Carpentaria . 
The new manager of a remote cattle station in the Northern Territory be urgently stock up on supply . 
Mainoru Station 's Scott Woltman say his life in central Queensland do not prepare him for the wild weather . 
`` It 's all new , we do n't get mixed up with these sort of thing in central Queensland where we come from , '' he say . 

Diamond production drop 
The big wet season in the Kimberley in WA , have contribute to a 40 per cent drop in diamond production . 

Stud owner 'optimistic ' about online sale 
Stud cattle be be sell exclusively on the Internet for the first time today . 
Traditionally sale be conduct in person by agent with online selling offer a an additional feature . 
Tanholm Limousin stud owner Kjedl Sorenson , from the Darling Downs in Queensland , say the sale have attract interest from across Australia . 
`` I 'm not nervous , but I 'm curious to see how it go , '' he say . 

Fodder export company invest in Douglas-Daly region 
Despite a moratorium on land clearing and uncertainty over water allocation , development in the Douglas-Daly region , 200 kilometre south of Darwin , be still go ahead . 
Northern Australia Fodder Exports have buy the first of what it hop will be a number of property grow alfalfa for the Japanese and Korean dairy market . 
Chief executive officer Peter Ryan say there will be an initial investment of around $ 10 million , a a sign of faith in the region 's future . 
`` I believe that it present great opportunity and great natural advantage with the quality and the size of the water resource , and the climatic advantage couple with the geographic advantage , '' he say . 

Landcare popularity wane 
While Landcare be approach it 20th anniversary in Victoria , a new survey show it be not as popular a it use to be . 
Over the past six year , more than 4,000 Victorians have leave the movement and the number of group have also decline . 
Survey author and director of the Institute for Land , Water and Society , Professor Allan Curtis , say there be a number of reason why people be leave . 

Tweed farmer pick up environmental award 
A sugar cane farmer from northern New South Wales have be name Australia 's best environmentally friendly farmer . 
Robert Quirk receive the 16th McKell Medal for excellence in natural resource management at a ceremony in Sydney this morning . 
A farmer in the Tweed Valley for 44 year , Mr Quirk say he be dedicate to improve soil , reduce chemical use and fertiliser run-off while increase productivity and profitability . 
`` It be possible to do environmental stewardship , increase your bottom line and have good outcome all round for both the environment , the farming community and the longevity of the sugar industry , and other industry , '' he say . 

Nullabor Muster set to boost remote town 's population 
The population of the isolated Western Australian town of Rawlinna be set to boom a people arrive for the annual Nullabor Muster . 
The muster be not just the main event for pastoralists on the Nullabor , it be their own event for the year . 
And by tonight there will be literally hundred of swag dot across the ground . 
It be a long way from anywhere , about four hour east of Kalgoorlie-Boulder on the railway line which connect the east and west of Australia . 

Farmers expect to get tax concession 
Farmers look set to win capital gain tax concession in the federal Budget to cut the cost of pass down family farm . 
There could also be a billion dollar budget bonus for rural road with the National party believe to have secure money to link strategic road to port . 
Currently many farmer pay huge capital gain tax bill when they sell their farm because rise rural land price have push their farm value above a $ 5 million threshold . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say that mean producer can no longer access small business tax concession , make farm succession plan a costly process . 
Reports now suggest the Government will allow more farmer to get the tax concession . 
NFF chief executive Ben Fargher say the mooted change make sense . 
`` Current rule mean farmer be click out of be able to access those exemption , we 've ask the Government to look at it , '' he say . 
There be also speculation the Government be consider a $ 1 billion road package aim at Queensland 's Bruce and Hume Highways . 
Nationals leader Mark Vaile will not confirm the spending but say he be in favour of more road funding . 

AWB 'apology document ' suppression ruling loom 
A bid by wheat exporter AWB to stop the release of an `` apology document '' be be hear in the Federal Court in Melbourne . 
Earlier this month the AWB board vote to lodge the court challenge to AWB inquiry Commissioner Terence Cole 's decision to lift a non-publication order on the document , which be prepare for the company last year . 
The document be write by a crisis management expert , who suggest the company take a strategy of `` over-apology '' . 
Commissioner Cole rule the document be not prepare for the purpose of legal advice and so could be publish . 
An AWB spokesman say the board felt the document , and others to do with AWB 's internal investigation into the scandal , should be protect by legal professional privilege . 
Former manage director Andrew Lindberg have tell the court he engage a US public relation consultant to put together the statement of contrition , which would be present to the Cole inquiry . 
Under cross-examination he deny the statement be prepare for PR purpose but maintain it be part of the company 's legal strategy . 
However Mr Lindberg acknowledge any statement to the inquiry would attract widespread publicity . 
The court be expect to make a decision today on whether to release the document . 

Acting CEO resigns 
Meanwhile AWB be look for someone to fill it top job follow the resignation of act chief executive Peter Polson . 
Mr Polson replace Mr Lindberg but in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange , AWB say he want to concentrate on other business interest . 
Mr Polson will continue to be an AWB director . 
Executive chairman Brendan Stewart will step into the vacancy until a new CEO be find . 

Credibility damage 
In another development , a survey show the credibility of the Federal Government and wheat exporter AWB have be damage by the oil-for-food scandal . 
Roy Morgan Research have survey more than 650 people live in rural and metropolitan area about their perception of AWB and the Government since the Cole inquiry begin . 
Director Gary Morgan say the public be not accept the message be push by the Government about it knowledge of the deal and most have question about AWB . 
`` Sixty-five per cent say they do not act ethically , only 12 per cent say they do , '' Mr Morgan say . 
`` We ask the question : 'Do you think the Prime Minister John Howard act ethically on this issue or not ' . 
`` Fifty-four per cent say no , he do not act ethically , 29 per cent say he do , 17 per cent be undecided . 
`` We ask the same question about Alexander Downer . Fifty-six per cent say 'he do not act ethically ' . 

Darwin resident prepare for Monica 's onslaught 
Preparations for tropical cyclone Monica be under way across the city of Darwin in the Northern Territory . 
The category 5 system have already create major disruption with commercial fishing . 
As tropical cyclone Monica track west across the Gulf of Carpentaria , many of the 75 prawn trawler that fish the remote off-shore region take shelter in calmer water to the south near Karumba and the Northern Territory-Queensland border . 
Others steam back to their northern port such a the Francis Bay Mooring Basin in Darwin . 
The interruption to the banana prawn harvest have create at least one week of disrupt fishing time and waste fuel in not ideal fish ground . 
One of the large company , NewFishing Australia , estimate the disruption will cost them ten of thousand of dollar . 
It be an unusual sight to see trawler and fishing vessel in the Darwin Port in the middle of the season which end in just under one month . 
They be be double lash to mooring with rope and pack in tight side by side with tyre fender between them to reduce friction . 
And the level of water in this mooring basin will be drop to allow these large vessel to rest on the bottom for the bad of the weather . 

Flooding 
And rain from cyclone Monica be cause the bad flood in live memory in part of far north Queensland . 
Residents from a Cape York Peninsula aboriginal community and at least three family from cattle property have be airlift to drier ground . 
Glen Shephard from Lilyvale Station , near Princess Charlotte Bay , say he have never see anything like it 
`` Wednesday afternoon it start to rain and by about seven o'clock the next morning we 'd have seven inch so the water be start to tickle our toe , sort a thing , '' he say . 
`` It come through the house about fourteen or fifteen inch ... have to walk across the airstrip to get over on a bit of high ground . 
`` It 's always a concern about crocs in this country [ but ] ... I do n't tell the kid that . '' 
Senior forecaster at the Bureau of Meteorology David Alexander say Monica be one of the most perfect cyclone system he have see . 
He say it be far more dangerous than cyclone Larry which cause massive destruction in far north Queensland last month . 
`` It 's probably the best developed cyclone I have see in many , many year , '' he say . 
`` It 's get a perfect circular eye , it 's right at the top of a category 5 range , so it 's a very , very severe cyclone . 

Egg producer unhappy at adjustment package rejection 
Egg producer be furious that a meeting of state and federal primary industry minister have refuse to endorse a $ 23 million adjustment package . 
The fund would have help farmer to leave the sector if they could not afford to upgrade to big hen cage under new animal welfare law . 
President Jeff Ironside say the change be be impose by government and compensation should be pay . 
`` Unfortunately you ca n't do anything with the old system because they do n't lend themselves to tamper with the size , '' he say . 
`` So egg producer virtually have to go out and buy new equipment to comply with the new regulation because it be around about 50 buck a bird , you know a farm with 20,000 bird , a million dollar . '' 

McGuigan Simeon reject analyst 's price 
Wine giant McGuigan Simeon have tell grower in the Riverland and Sunraysia it will not accept price set by an independent analyst last week . 
The analyst be call into settle a dispute over how much the winery be prepare to pay grower for grape already deliver . 
Chris Byrne from the Riverland Wine Grape Growers Association say the company must now explain why it will not accept the price . 

High bacteria level stop oyster production 
Oyster production in the Bellinger River on New South Wales mid-north coast have be halt due to unacceptably high level of E. coli . 
The New South Wales Food Authority have stop harvest Sydney Rock Oysters indefinitely . 
John Lindsay from the Bellinger Oyster Growers Association say grower be shock and more should have be do earlier by authority . 
`` We 're all extremely surprised because we always think the Bellinger River be one of the pristine river , '' he say . 
`` We always think it be one of the best river on the north coast . Obviously not . We know there be some problem in there . 
`` We 've be onto council , we 've be onto the Food Authority to try and clear up some hot spot . 

Farmers hit out at dept land clear inspection method 
Farmers in western New South Wales have vow to prevent state Department of Natural Resources official from enter their property to conduct land clear inspection . 
The farmer be angry at recent compliance check where the department use a police escort . 
Doug Menzies say 200 farmer who attend a meeting in Nyngan be feed up with what they say be unworkable legislation and heavy handed government approach . 
`` We 've try every legal avenue we can and we just get stonewall every time , '' he say . 

Irrigators confident of access water from gas reserve 
Southern Queensland irrigators be confident they will be next in line to access vast amount of water from underground coal seam gas reserve . 
The Federal Government have announce a $ 10 million project to allow the Dalby Town Council to use 1,000 megalitres of water extract along with natural gas by Arrow Energy . 
Cotton grower Paul McVeigh say irrigators be make an application to the National Water Commission so they access the water . 
`` The challenge I suppose this be new water , it 's water that 's never be available before and I think the exciting side of it be that at this stage you know water be probably the big issue in the whole Australian community and here we be sit on a great asset , '' he say . 

Potato harvester dig up WWII mortar bomb 
A team of potato harvester in northern Tasmania dig up more than they bargain for at the weekend - a World War II mortar bomb . 
Army bomb disposal expert be fly from Melbourne to the Campbell Town farm and declare the rusty three kilogram bomb to be a harmless practice round . 
Major Danny Rowe say they be call out to Tasmania on average once a month and only 10 per cent of bomb be find to be live . 
`` Some of the area around here be use during the war and post war a practice range , for troop that be billet down in Tasmania , so some of these area have old ammunition on them that have be fire during the war , '' he say . 

McGauran deny break promise over fruit code of conduct 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have be accuse of break an election promise , by not include the big supermarket in a mandatory code of conduct for the fruit and vegetable sector . 
Despite concern within his own party , Mr McGauran be expect to take the code to Cabinet tomorrow . 
National Party backbencher say the Government be not deliver on what it promise . 
In a statement during the election former leader John Anderson say the code would give producer a fairer deal on term of trade and in resolve dispute with produce buyer , who be in many instance large supermarket chain . 
Member for Mallee John Forrest say the Government may as well not have the code at all if it do not include the big retailer . 
`` To leave them out be n't deliver what we say we would deliver , '' he say . 
The Government also face a legal challenge from wholesale market who be include in the code . 
Central Markets Association spokesman Andrew Young say the current plan give supermarket an unfair advantage over market wholesaler . 
`` It should be workable and right now we 're face something which in many respect do n't meet any of those criterion , '' he say . 
But Mr McGauran deny he be break an election promise and say the code be never mean to include retailer like Coles and Woolworths . 
He say the real problem for grower occur when they send produce to market wholesaler . 
`` Retailers be never part of the election commitment which be write down , '' he say . 

Citrus company block canker surveillance official 
One of Australia 's major citrus grow company have close it gate to Queensland 's citrus canker surveillance authority . 
The discovery of canker at Emerald in 2004 decimate the local industry , with the destruction of ten of thousand of fruit tree . 
2PH Farms say the blockade be to support local orchardist Maurie Iddles , who miss out on financial assistance in the wake of the outbreak . 
Craig Pressler of 2PH say it be not an easy choice , with both farmer risk their plan to replant orchard next year . 
`` Well the decision be n't take lightly , '' he say . 
`` We wish to support Maurie and Connie in their fight for fair and equitable treatment with regard to compensation . 

NZ apple grower hit back at wheat bug claim 
Kiwi apple grower be angry at claim a native New Zealand wheat bug be spread to Europe by apple packaging . 
Australian grower say the discovery of wheat bug in Belgium and Holland could raise new concern about the risk pose by New Zealand apple import . 
But Peter Beaven from Pipfruit New Zealand say a study have show the pest have a limited ability to survive cool storage . 
`` We do n't believe for a moment it get there on apple it must have get there on some other commodity that 's not cool store or on the clothing of tourist , '' he say . 

Decision reserve on AWB 'apology ' document 
A Federal Court Judge have reserve his decision on whether to make AWB 's so-called apology document public . 
In hearing yesterday AWB argue the apology be draft a part of the company 's legal preparation for the Cole Inquiry . 
Appearing a a witness for AWB , former manage director Andrew Lindberg tell the court fellow board member Peter Polson have recommend a US public relation consultant to help draft the apology , give his experience with crisis management . 
Mr Polson resign a act chief executive of the company last Friday . 
But counsel for the Commonwealth say the main purpose for the draft apology be to influence public opinion and help AWB 's public relation strategy , by submit the document to the Inquiry . 
Justice Young have reserve his decision for a date to be set . 

S Africa begin Iraq kickback inquiry 
South Africa have establish it own version of the Cole inquiry , into allegation of kickback to the former Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein . 
Eight South African company have be subpoena to appear at the Donen Commission . 
Public hearing will begin in two week and will investigate illegal oil surcharge , after-sales-service-fees and inland transportation fee pay to Iraqi official . 
Secretary of the commission , Matsepo Mobeng say the South African government have look to Australia 's example . 

Cyclone Monica downgrade 
Darwin resident be breathe a bit easy today , with tropical Cyclone Monica downgrade to a category 1 system this morning . 
Remote pearl farm too appear to have be spar major damage from the cyclone , which have be rat a destructive category five yesterday . 
Chris Barnard from Arafura Pearls , north of Nhulunbuy say it be a lucky escape . 
`` As the wind intensified , we would have get up to about 180-200km/hr wind , '' he say . 
`` We be lucky this cyclone season in the NT . Unfortunately what I have hear from WA be that they have have a bit of a rough time . But in the NT we be save this season . It be just a reminder to be on your toe the whole time . You never know when one might hit , even as late a it be in this season . '' 

Stormy weather cause diamond price drop 
The stormy weather across northern Australia be affect the price of diamond . 
Production at the world 's big diamond mine , Argyle Diamonds in WA , drop significantly in the first quarter due to wet weather . 
Diamond expert James McGlew say the production drop , along with a rush of diamond buying worldwide , be go to make a sparkler much more expensive . 
`` I mean over the last three year we 've see average price rise total about 60 per cent in price , '' he say . 

Cazaly court action chance 'relatively slim ' 
A resource analyst say a Federal Court bid over the right to an iron ore tenement in Western Australia 's north-west have little chance of success . 
Cazaly Resources peg the large deposit in September when it become clear mining giant Rio Tinto have forget to renew it lease . 
Mines Minister John Bowler have rule the land be return to Rio , result in a $ 75 million loss for Cazaly shareholder on the stock exchange yesterday . 
But Hartley 's Rob Brierley say Cazaly 's court action could be in vain . 

McGuigan deny grower grape price claim 
Wine giant McGuigan Simeon have deny grower claim it will not pay new grape price set by an independent analyst . 
Grower association in the Riverland and Murray Valley claim the winery have write to grower say it will not accept the new price . 
But chief executive Dane Hudson say there have be a misunderstanding . 

New technique find to reduce fishing death 
A four year project have show commercial angler can use long line for deep sea fishing without kill thousand of seabird . 
In the past trailing bait hook behind trawler in Antarctic water have cause the death of up to 3,000 bird a year . 
Techniques , include quickly sink hook and haul them in differently , have reduce sea bird death to zero . 
Les Scott from fish company Petuna Sealord say other country should follow Australia 's lead . 
`` The statistic show that the mitigation method work because if you look at our neighbour their bird mortality be still 2,000 plus , '' he say . 

East Timor join in Anzac service 
A special Anzac Day dawn service have be hold in Dili , the capital of East Timor . 
It have commemorate 11 Australian soldier believe to have die there in 1942 . 
During World War II , Australia 's Sparrow Force work deep in the rugged mountain jungle of East Timor . 
Helio Tavares say they conduct guerrilla operation against the Japanese and be support by the Timorese people . 
`` During World War II the Timorese , support the Australians , because they do n't want East Timor to be invade by the Japanese Army , '' he say . 
`` Throughout the four year of struggle , up to 44,000 Timorese die assist Australian soldier . 
`` The Timorese really value that relationship with Australia and we can see it today . 
`` The Prime Minister address the people and say that Australia be a very important neighbour and a partner in the development of the country . '' 
The school of the air in outback Queensland be also get into the Anzac spirit . 
A group of student from cattle station in the Richmond area west of Townsville have spend week practise the national anthem to perform for the local Anzac parade . 

Teleworking project aim at help rural woman 
A new project be try to get more rural woman in job without have to leave home . 
Teleworking would allow woman to utilise their education and professional experience without the need to travel long distance . 
Chris Capel from the Foundation for Australian Agricultural Women say get company to take on teleworkers be the big challenge . 
`` It 'll be convince employer and business [ that ] will be the major hurdle I think , '' she say . 

Mulesing replacement trial ax 
The race to find an alternative to sheep mulesing by 2010 have hit a major hurdle , with the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) ban a key product be use in trial . 
Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) have be inject collagenase into sheep 's backside to inhibit the growth of wool . 
But the trial have now be dump , with AQIS warn the biological agent pose a biosecurity risk and could carry mad cow disease . 
AWI 's Scott Williams say while it be costly to lose the research , other trial be in progress . 
`` It 's always costly to try and do R & D at the sort of pace we 're do it at because we 've only get a very short deadline , of course , '' he say . 
`` That mean you sometimes duplicate thing because you ca n't afford to fail , so we 've have , you know , three or four different front move forward at once , even though we may only need one or two of those . 

Court oppose chicken meat producer ' bid for joint action 
Farmers have lose a five year legal battle for the right to band together to refuse to supply processor . 
The court action be launch by Victoria 's chicken meat producer , who want to set a precedent for other farmer with limited contract option , include the potato , wine grape and dairy sector . 
Under the Trade Practices Act , individual can refuse to supply produce , but not group . 
President of the Victoria Farmers ' Federation 's chicken meat group , John Clarke , say the Federal Court 's decision be a blow . 
`` The processor be deal opportunistically with grower and abuse their market power but they have n't see fit , or the tribunal have n't see fit , to go the extra step and give u [ the ] right to have countervail power . 

Grain grower ' future not look rosy 
Changing weather pattern , weed resistance and high input cost be put pressure on grain farm income , despite more land be crop than ever before . 
In the short term , farm income will go up but figure from ABARE and the Grains Research and Development Corporation , say the picture be not a rosy further out . 
Increased production in Australia and strong global competition will keep grain price low . 
Agricultural analyst Neil Clark say average-sized farmer have tough time ahead . 
`` The price of grain have be fall at about an average of 2.2 per cent for the last 28 year and yet we all know that the cost of fertiliser , fuel and in particular debt servicing be go to be at an all time high for the come cropping season and the commodity price be n't all that great yet , '' he say . 
`` It 's always great for the top 25 per cent and if we look at any of the ABARE study they do shine . 

Lack of rain do n't prevent crop sowing 
Crop sowing be under way in some part of the country , despite the lack of a significant autumn break in Australia 's south-east . 
Plenty of unseasonal summer rain have lead Western Australian grower to plant canola and lupins early than usual , to make the most of sub soil moisture . 
Tenindewa farmer Glen Thomas be plant 6,690 hectare but say he be hold back on certain crop , like lupin , because of poor price . 
`` We probably would have put even more in , give the summer rain . But we 're just go to cap it at [ 1,000 ] where that 's a big enough risk a it be , '' he say . 

April rainfall set Darwin record 
The passage of tropical cyclone Monica in the Northern Territory have result in new rainfall level . 
Darwin have have it wet April since fall record begin 65 year ago . 
A total of 383 millimetre have fall so far this month and weather bureau forecaster Patrick Ward say that be close to four time the average . 
`` Darwin have about 53 mm at the airport , down towards Adelaide River it be a lot heavy . East branch Adelaide River have 224 mm , which be quite a lot , '' he say . 
`` This time of year it 's sort of the clear up period of the monsoon season and into the dry . It 's unseasonably late to get a cyclone . It 's just about the late cyclone we have have . '' 

'Smart card ' introduction raise regional concern 
Concerns have be raise about potential logistical , cost and privacy problem in regional Australia with the introduction of a national identification card . 
Federal Cabinet be today consider the so-called `` smart card '' which all Australian adult would need to access Medicare , welfare and tax benefit . 
But independent federal MP for New England Tony Windsor say he have see no evidence that the benefit would justify the expense . 
`` Well very , very costly of course for people who have get distance and remoteness to contend with , '' he say . 
`` What if there be technical problem , if that personal information be on a card and it be lose . 
`` We can see what computer fraud can do in access people 's information . 

Regional family day care operator fear for future 
Family day care operator in many regional area be worried they could be force to reduce service or even close within month because of funding shortfall . 
The threat come on top of a drop in available childcare place over the past year due to change to funding . 
Tracey Guerin from the Alice Springs Family Day Care Centre say the situation will get bad unless the federal Budget include more financial support . 
`` I have grave concern for the future of the service . I do n't believe that we 'll be fund to the same level a we have be and I think that we will either have to look at offer less of a service or close all together , '' she say . 

Investment scheme urge to stop new vineyard development 
Wine grape grower be urge investment scheme to put the brake on new vineyard development . 
Peak body Wine Grape Growers Australia say money be still be put into the sector despite a massive oversupply of grape . 
Executive director Mark McKenzie say people should be wary about invest without a long term , secure contract for the fruit . 
`` It 's not just independent grape grower or contract , or uncontracted , grape grower who supply to winery would be concern , '' he say . 

Newcastle shipment may provide new export opportunity 
A live export shipment have leave the port of Newcastle in New South Wales for the first time in year . 
The ship , carry 980 dairy cow , will arrive in Japan in a fortnight . 
Cameron Hall from LiveCorp say it could be a new opportunity for the dairy sector in a state not know for live animal export . 

Aust to help improve Vietnamese industry 
An Australian man have be appoint to help improve Vietnam 's dairy and beef industry . 
Vietnam 's 25,000 dairy farmer have only four cow each on average . 
Over the next five year , John Hopkins from Swan Hill will select 9,000 Australian cow for export to help boost herd number . 
He will also help to establish a dairy training facility at the National Institute of Animal Husbandry in Saigon . 
`` They be really struggle with it and they be get so many thing wrong , '' he say . 

Satellite track collar to track dingo 
Dingoes in southern and western Queensland be be fit with satellite track collar . 
The collar be part of a two year research project to help track and contain wild dog number . 
Leigh Allen from the Department of Natural Resources and Mines say they have target three state forest near Roma , Dalby and Morven where baiting be not work . 
`` This be a research project to understand more about where dog be come from , how far they 're move and what the source of the current problem be , '' she say . 

Humans urge to adopt animal eating pattern 
A study into the eat pattern of animal could help cut obesity rate in Western country . 
Left to choose their own food , research have show animal will first seek out protein and never become obese . 
In a natural state , the same be true for human . 
But Professor Steve Simpson from the University of Sydney say modern diet with high fat and salt content trick people into overeat . 
`` But if you simply change the ratio and you can do that in one or two way - incorporate high quality protein item in the diet and by that I mean lean meat or fish or high quality vegetable protein , '' he say . 

Upper Hunter stallion break stud fee record 
A new Australian record for a stud fee have be set by the stallion Redoute 's Choice . 
The Arrowfield stud in the Upper Hunter of New South Wales have increase the champion stallion 's service fee from $ 220,000 to $ 275,000 . 

Study spell trouble for single desk : Opposition 
The Federal Opposition say the Government be carry out a 'hatchet job ' on the wheat export system by fund a study which it believe will call for the removal of the single desk . 
Opposition agriculture spokesman Gavan O'Connor say grain industry think tank , Single Vision Australia , have commission a report into the single desk . 
Single Vision be fund by the Government through the Grains Research and Development Corporation and have ask the Centre for International Economics to carry out research into the wheat export system . 
And Mr O'Connor say that spell trouble for the single desk . 
`` It 's the sort of organisation I think you employ when you want a hatchet job on the issue , '' he say . 
The Government deny it have anything to do with set up the report . 
And Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say while the Government will consider it finding , it will not necessarily become policy . 
`` It will be an interesting read and whether or not it ever become public policy I would n't know , '' he say . 
The report be due for release in the next few week . 
Meanwhile hundred of grain grower from across Western Australia have gather in the wheatbelt town on Cunderdin to show support for the single desk . 
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile be also there to listen to farmer ' concern . 
Brookton farmer Wanda Mattingly say WA grower want to send a clear message to Prime Minister John Howard that he need to protect the current system . 
`` If we do n't do something and then we sit back and whinge about it then we be our own bad enemy , '' he say . 

Panel urge national approach to GM technology regulation 
There be a call today for a national approach to the regulation of gene technology because of confusion cause by state-based ban on genetically modify ( GM ) crop . 
The Gene Technology Act be introduce in 2000 to oversee the use of GM technology in Australia but since then all state except Queensland and the Northern Territory have impose their own rule . 
Chairwoman of an independent panel which have review the Act , Susan Timbs , say the regulation have become too confusing . 
`` This be a point that be make very strongly to u by industry , that if they go through and get their approval from the regulator , suddenly they feel that there be a complete block because they do n't know the criterion that they need to meet to convince the relevant state government , '' she say . 

Remote station may be nominate a alternative dump site 
There be speculation in the Northern Territory that a remote cattle station could be nominate a an alternative site for a national nuclear waste dump . 
Senator Nigel Scullion have intimate that Northern Land Council land near Tennant Creek be be consider . 
One of the few Aboriginal station in the region be Muckaty on the edge of the Barkly Tableland . 
Former station owner Miriam Hagan say while the area be dry than the propose Top End site , she would still have grave concern for the cattle country , if the rumour be true . 
`` I 'm quite stun actually and I do think it would be a profanity to put that on the beloved place where my sister and I grow up , '' she say . 
`` There be , you know , deep underground aquifer , so I think a lot of homework would have to be do . 

Hydro sale inquiry call grow 
Pressure be mount on the New South Wales Government to hold a public inquiry into plan to privatise Snowy Hydro . 
A big meeting of irrigators in southern New South Wales have call for legislation to guarantee their access to water . 
The meeting of 200 irrigators in Griffith last night follow a fiery gatherting of 300 people in Cooma last week . 
Irrigators be seek a guarantee that minimum release to the Murray and Murrumbidgee Rivers , cover by the Snowy water agreement , will be legislate . 
They be also call for a 10 per cent cap on individual shareholding . 
A former Snowy Hydro commissioner , Vin Good , urge people to oppose the sale . 
`` This Australian heritage icon should be keep in Government ownership forever , '' he say . 
With harvest draw to a close , up to 3 per cent of wine grape will be leave unpicked this year , due to oversupply . 
The national vintage be expect to reach 1.9 million tonne , just 1 per cent down on last season . 

Row brew over european bumblebee plan 
A row have erupt over a plan to import european bumblebee to mainland Australia . 
While the horticulture sector say they could help boost production in greenhouse and hydroponic operation , environmentalist be worry about other impact . 
A Department of Environment and Heritage report release for public comment last week be consider the importation of bumblebee for control crop pollination . 
Queensland greenhouse tomato grower David Da Pra say it would dramatically boost production . 
`` Bring high pollination , which will give good fruit quality , good shelf life , more saleable fruit , '' he say . 
The Wide Bay Conservation Council 's Pam Soper want further research into artificial pollination , strongly oppose the importation of the bumblebee . 

Resource boom behind zinc mine 's reopening 
The booming base metal price have lead to the reopening of an old zinc mine in the Kimberley region of Western Australia . 
Canadian company Teck Cominco will reopen it underground mine near Fitzroy Crossing because of a recent hike in zinc price on the London Metal Exchange . 
Teck Cominco exploration general manager Wayne Spilsbury say zinc be perform well after a three-year price glut . 
`` We be watch the stock of zinc in the LME warehouse and make sure those number be come down before we make a decision to reopen . There be now an under supply , but that have only turn up in the last year or so . '' 
In South Australia , junior zinc explorer Terramin Australia have also benefit . 

Pastoralists brush up on first aid 
Some of the Northern Territory 's most isolated pastoralists be in Tennant Creek to improve their medical skill today , amid concern over the future of health service . 
Station manager and worker from around the Northern Territory 's Barkly Tablelands have travel hundred of kilometre to the central Australian town of Tennant Creek for the annual Barkly Health Seminar . 
Heavy rain and boggy road have do nothing to keep people away at a time of uncertainty about the future of remote health service in the region . 
Pastoralists have express concern that visit by health expert to pastoral station may soon be cut back . 

Former station to provide haven for protected specie 
A former 63,000 hectare pastoral station in South Australia 's north-east have be open a a conservation park . 
Boolcoomatta Station have be buy by the Federal Government and the Nature Foundation of South Australia to protect endanger bird life and flora . 
Doug Humann from the Australian Bush Heritage Fund , which will manage the property , say it be a unique bioregion . 
`` It 's a property that embrace vegetation system and land type that be very poorly reserve in Australia , '' he say . 
`` It contain vulnerable specie like the plain wanderer , a bird and we hope in future yellow foot rock wallaby . 

Fruit fly find concern grower 
Fruit and vegetable producer on the Adelaide Plains be worry about the impact of a fruit fly outbreak . 
Mediterranean fruit fly , which also target vegetable , have be detect in Adelaide 's north-west suburb . 
Mike Redmond , from the Virginia Horticulture Centre , north of the outbreak , say a quarantine area have be establish and sterile fly be be release to contain the spread . 
`` If it get into our greenhouse it would be horrific for our industry , '' Mr Redmond say . 
`` Tomatoes , capsicum , eggplant would be the main impact from our perspective . 

Eucalyptus rust fear 
The Primary Industries Ministerial Council meeting last week sound an alarm call on the fungal disease , eucalyptus rust . The council note the tree disease , native to South and Central America , have reach Hawaii , and there be fear it could get into Australia . Indeed the council go so far a to suggest that prevention and contingency plan for the disease be prepare a a matter of urgency . The disease attack plant under two year of age , cause leaf and shoot dieback and kill the plant . Potentially it could kill not only large number of young plantation tree but also native eucalypt , a it have a wide number of eucalypt which could act a host . Ensis have predict the area most likely to be at risk be the NT , coastal Queensland and NSW . However , generally warm condition could see it easily colonise region far south . In Brazil , there be a 40 per cent fatality from the disease . 

Footrot control review 
The continuation of the state 's sheep footrot control program have be assure after a comprehensive review by representative from the South Australian Sheep Advisory Committee , the South Australian Farmers Federation and PIRSA . In the 1950s , about one third of the sheep flock in the south-east be suffer from the disease but eradication program and improve diagnosis have eradicate the most virulent strain . Sheep with the disease find it difficult to walk and can get fly blow foot and leg from the disease , and they must be quarantine . Footrot be still a notifiable disease although new technology would be trialed to find good control method . 

More work to be do on fresh produce code of conduct 
The Federal Government deny it have break a key election promise for a mandatory code of conduct for the fresh produce sector , despite further delay . 
The code , to improve relation between wholesaler and grower , be to have be introduce within 100 day of the last election . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran now admit there be still more work to be do after Cabinet again fail to agree on the plan this week . 
He also say statement by former deputy prime minister John Anderson that the code would include the big supermarket chain have be misinterpret . 
`` I think that be quite ambiguous and be a broaden out of his other statement that I 've have regard to , '' he say . 
`` So it might have be in Mr Anderson 's mind to expand it to supermarket but that would have be policy on the run . '' 
The National Farmers Federation say the Government 's 100 day deadline be always unachievable . 
Despite want the retail sector include originally , vice-president Charles Burke now just want the policy in place as soon a possible . 

Veg price increase not flow through to farmer 
New figure show vegetable be cost 15 per cent more than at this time last year . 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics say the cost of food overall jump more than 4 per cent last quarter due to a hot summer and high cost for input like fuel and packaging . 
Mike Badcock from vegetable grower group AUSVEG say despite the rise , farmer be not see any increase in their profit . 
`` The very hot summer that eastern Australia experience this year really affected production , it basically cook the product in the ground and it be n't suitable so there 's be some quite large shortage of product - that 's the reason price have go up , '' he say . 
`` The two major supermarket chain control about 76 per cent of the market , they 've never have so much market share and they 're become quite aggressive on what price they pay for product . 

Security tight for World Meat Congress 
Animal right campaigner have attempt to disrupt the World Meat Congress in Brisbane , where 600 delegate be discuss the future of the industry . 
Protesters cry `` murder '' also say the Federal Government be sanction animal cruelty . 
Security be tight at the World Meat Congress with police surround the Convention Centre in Brisbane and security guard everywhere inside the building . 
The protest come a Australia be experience unprecedented growth in the cattle and beef industry . 
Cattle number be expect to grow by nearly 3 million head in the next four year and the value of export have rise by $ 870 million since 2003 , that 's on the back of growth in Japan and Korea . 
But keynote speaker at the Congress , Professor David Hughes , say while industry can not ignore concern about animal welfare , the total opposition to the farming of livestock represent a minority worldwide . 

Murray River irrigators to sell water to Govt 
The Federal Government will buy back water from Murray River irrigators to meet it target for environmental flow . 
Irrigators will be able to apply to sell water they have save through improve on-farm infrastructure . 
It be design to help supply 500 gigalitres of water under the Living Murray Initiative . 
Parliamentary Secretary for water policy Malcolm Turnbull say the tender process will be put forward at the next ministerial council meeting . 

Oil-for-food inquiry adjourn 
Apart from one last witness , public hearing at the oil-for-food inquiry be over . 
Commissioner Terence Cole have formally adjourn the four month investigation . 
Former UN custom official , Felicity Johnstone , will fly to Australia in mid-May to give evidence . 

High Aussie dollar hurt farm profit 
Economists say the rise Aussie dollar be cut into farm return . 
The dollar have rise five cent over the past few day and overnight lift above 75 US cent . 
Westpac senior economist Justin Smirk say speculation over an interest rate rise next month have fuel the increase . 
But he say other factor be also have an impact . 
`` Commodity price globally really have n't go anywhere over the last 12 month or if anything perhaps have ease a bit , '' he say . 
`` So this strong Aussie dollar , of course , be crimp back our exporter income for the farmer and really when you be think about the farm sector - high interest rate yes they will bite a bit around the margin . 
`` But perhaps the real significance be what we ca n't control and that be the rainfall out there and that be really go to be the driving factor of whether farmer have a good year or not . '' 
The high dollar and a large volume of wool have not help the wool market , with sale resume after the Easter recess . 

Wool bale sell to fashion house for $ 63,000 
The fine bale of wool ever offer in Australia have be sell for around $ 63,000 . 
The bale of 11.7 micron wool be sell by Ian and Kaye Appledore from Victoria 's Wimmera region for 70,000 cent a kilogram to Italian fashion house , Lora Piana . 
Ian Appledore be happy with the price , but say the bale be not the best they have to offer yesterday . 
`` 11.7 [ micron ] be n't our topline bale , our topline bale eventually sell as well once again to Lora Piana , '' he say . 
`` We sell that one for 48 . The reason the 11.7 be our second line bale be it just do n't have the strength of the first one . 

Tennant Creek resident oppose toxic dump 
Residents of Tennant Creek in the Territory have reject suggestion that a national toxic waste dump be build near the town . 
Muckaty station just north of Tennant Creek have be identify a a possible site . 
Three site near Alice Springs and Katherine have be short-listed for the dump , but there be grow speculation that none of them will be choose . 

Vic Govt to challenge wind farm ban 
The Victorian Government will take Federal Court action in a bid to overturn a decision to stop a wind farm development in south Gippsland . 
Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell block the $ 220 million project because of a threat to the endanger orange belly parrot . 
While the State Government say the decision be unreasonable local farmer Don Jelbart believe it be the right one . 
`` They keep come back to the parrot but there 's 17 threatened specie there , '' he say . 

Adelaide River battle flood 
The Northern Territory community of Adelaide River be battle flood in the wake of tropical cyclone Monica . 
More than 150 millimetre of rain fell on Anzac Day alone this week . 
Kai Hansen live on Goat Island on the western edge of Kakadu National Park and say brown , crocodile-infested water be roar past his house . 
`` There be no dry land leave at all . We know this beforehand that there be a potential for it to come up here but 800mm of rain in one month , and 290mm of rain in 19 hour we have - it 's an incredible amount of water , '' he say . 
`` I do n't think we will see any crocs because as soon a water get a bit rough the crocs seek quieter land . 
`` We do n't worry about it , we walk around chest deep in the water now and then outside to salvage more thing and get the boat and barge tie up and get to the generator shed , and we do n't even consider it . '' 

Councils seek to fill job through Melbourne advertising 
A group of western Victorian council have resort to advertising in Melbourne newspaper to try to lure worker . 
Ararat Rural City and the shire of Northern Grampians and Pyrenees will use ratepayer and state fund for the campaign , to address the skill shortage . 
Ararat Council 's rural development manager Mark Hogan say tradespeople , medical professional and agricultural worker be all in short supply . 
`` The key area that make our mind up that this be the way we need to go be some recent research from state and federal government which show that the number of people apply for job in our region and the Wimmera area be very small , '' he say . 

Sterile fruit fly fail to satisfly partner 
Sterile fruit fly have be tout a a way of control number of the pest insect but researcher say they be not prove to be satisfy mate . 
Research have show female fruit fly be attract to the sterile male but they be not always satisfy and head off look for other mate . 
Dr Phil Taylor from Macquarie University say they be now try to fix the problem , to stop them from cause major damage in horticultural region . 
`` Wild fly do n't seem to mind mat with them , however the sterile male have some issue with the amount of sperm they transfer and then the female 's likely to re-mate , '' he say . 

Studies to investigate GM crop issue 
The Federal Government have place further pressure on the state to lift their ban on genetically modify crop by announce eight case study into the sector 's most contentious issue . 
The study will be do by the Bureau of Rural Sciences and the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics , and the private sector will contribute . 
There will be four different report on the impact of release genetically modify canola , while weed control and the affect on organic farmer will also be consider . 

Water trading available for southern Qld farmer 
Queensland have give the go ahead for it first water trading scheme involve river system . 
Previously farmer could only buy water attach to land or from government-run irrigation scheme . 
Water trading will now be introduce across the Moonie and Warrego catchment in southern Queensland . 
An entitlement to access 120 megalitres a day from the Moonie River will be auction next month and Clayton Smith from Elders believe it could sell for well over $ 2 million . 
`` Existing irrigators will be keen to get more water to do more development on their property and secure their future , '' he say . 

Mini turbine generate farm power 
A Victorian dairy farmer have invent a mini hydroelectric turbine to generate on-farm power . 
The Sundermann turbine , name after farmer Fred Sundermann , can be use in slow-moving water , like irrigation channel and stream . 
It be about the size of a large washing machine and be design to generate power in remote area . 
Mr Sundermann say he hop his turbine can be use to power remote community around the world . 
`` I have dream for the turbine , '' he say . 

Roo shooter number may threaten industry 
There be concern a record number of kangaroo shooter in Queensland be threaten the industry 's future . 
Up to 2,000 shooter be register in Queensland , with 400 new licence grant since October alone . 
Jeffrey Newton from the Macropod and Wild Game Harvesters Association say record roo meat price mean too many people be vie for a share of already limited quota . 
`` As with any industry , big dollar attract people that be chase that quick dollar but unfortunately this industry ca n't sustain that , '' he say . 

Water in the bank 
While water scarcity be not much of an issue in the Top End at the moment , in central Australia attempt to develop a new horticulture industry depend very much on new water save technology . The water re-use project in Alice Springs have be under development for some time but emerge technology could make a number of similar project viable and workable . Professor Stuart White from Sydney 's University of Technology have work on water save project with government and council around Australia and he say there be a new sense of urgency to develop water saving project . `` When we start to move away from the urban sector and talk about water use more generally and remember 80 per cent of water be not use in town and city it 's actually use in irrigated agriculture and so on , we do have to take a bit of a long hard look at some of the industry that be use water and say be this appropriate and what be the trade off between the impact of some of these industry and the impact on water way and the benefit we derive from them . However there be huge scope for efficiency there , I mean we 're talk about efficiency level which can be improve even beyond what we 're talk about in the city , in term of relatively low cost saving , and some of those be start to be pick up and that 's a good thing . '' 

Crop plant to follow weekend rain 
Despite the high diesel price , crop planting be expect to get into full swing across much of Victoria and South Australia this week after good weekend rain . 
Most of South Australia 's grow area have rain and there be also fall of between 44 and 30 millimetre across northern Victoria . 
Victorian talkback caller Shirley be certainly relieve . 
`` We 've have 51 millimetre . We have one of those scattered thunderstorm . We be actually away for the day and we get home here at about 6:00pm and the further we come towards home , there be more water and we get home and there be just water everywhere , '' she say . 

AWB delegation to investigate wheat pesticide find 
A 50,000 tonne shipment of Australian wheat have be stop from unload in India after test reveal unacceptable level of pesticide . 
The shipment , which leave the port of Adelaide last week , be now on standby at Chennai port , await further test from Indian and Australian authority . 
It be the first consignment of a half million tonne tender won by exporter AWB and spokesman Peter McBride say the company be send it own delegation . 
`` They have identify that there be a high level of pesticide reading , so AWB be send a high level delegation to India which will leave today to meet with our customer to address the issue and obtain more information , '' he say . 
`` We 've run test here a the ship leave and we 'll do that for future vessel . 
`` We ca n't really provide further detail until we have meet with our customer and hopefully we 'll have further information later this week or early next week . '' 

Trucking company to pass on increased fuel cost 
The transport industry will start pass on the increase cost of fuel this week a company begin to include fuel surcharge in contract . 
The Australian Trucking Association ( ATA ) have be urge operator to act for some time , especially small business who be struggle to absorb the high diesel cost . 
The ATA 's Stuart St Clair say he be relieve at the industry 's decision and believe most customer have be expect it . 
`` I think the majority of customer would understand because they 'd be under some similar price pressure themselves , particularly those that have a lot of vehicle on the road , whether they be stock and station agent or whether they be farmer or others , '' he say . 

New dam plan anger farmer 
Farmers be angry over plan for a big new dam in south-east Queensland . 
Landholders near Gympie be plan a campaign to try to force the State Government to scrap the idea , which involve the resumption of 900 property . 
The dam be design to fix the water crisis in the south-east corner of Queensland and will cover 7,500 hectare of prime farm land near Traveston Crossing on the Mary River . 
One of the region 's big dairy producer , John Cochrane , have just spend a million dollar upgrade his farm , which would end up 30 metre underwater . 

Ginseng manage investment scheme wind up 
Tasmania 's ginseng manage investment scheme will be wind up , with a $ 5 million loss . 
There be hop the scheme could be salvage but they have be dash by the poor performance of the ginseng farm near Richmond , in the state 's south . 

Buderim Ginger 's domestic sale drop 6pc 
Queensland-based Buderim Ginger say the major supermarket 's push towards home brand have result in it first drop in domestic sale in 15 year . 
The company have announce a profit of $ 536,000 for last year , up 56 per cent . 
Exports have grow 10 per cent but chairman John Ruscoe say domestic sale have fall away by 6 per cent . 
`` The retailer be clearly try to position their own house brand where they can at the most desirable place in the store , which mean that our product really be compete with that , '' he say . 

Wet season take it toll on live cattle export 
The Northern Territory 's protracted wet season be have a lasting impact on live cattle export to South-East Asia . 
Feedlots in Australia 's large market , Indonesia , be less than half-full , with another 50,000 cattle need . 
Stuart Kenny from the Territory Cattlemen 's Association say cattle price in Indonesia have go up but that have not slow demand . 
`` There have be more price rise over the last couple of week but our visitor be say that the price do not detract from the supply and that 's a good sign , '' he say . 
`` I think the Indonesian economy be certainly sort of hold it own and we certainly look forward to see a good cattle season ahead for the NT cattle industry . 

Table grape export resume to Indonesia 
Table grape exporter have resume trade with Indonesia after be shut out of the market last month . 
Indonesia have impose tough new quarantine protocol to reduce the threat of fruit fly , which the industry have brand unworkable . 
Some company have begin fumigate fruit with methyl bromide at a Melbourne facility to meet the new demand but Brett Pickering from exporter Best Fresh say it be not an ideal result . 
`` There be an additional cost obviously for the treatment , '' he say . 
`` In term of ship out of the country we lose a bit of flexibility in be able to utilise the Adelaide port for later leave vessel . 

WA native title battle resolve 
A 12-year native title battle surround the Western Australian town of Broome have finally be resolve . 
The Federal Court have recognise the Yawuru people a the rightful native title holder of land surround Broome . 
The full effect of native title will take place on the Indigenous-owned cattle property , Roebuck Station , while the neighbouring property , Thangoo Station , will continue to operate a a privately-owned lease . 
Fred Chaney from the Native Title Tribunal say the decision also extend to area like the famous Cable Beach . 
`` The beach be of course a very significant feature of Broome and that be an area where you ca n't have exclusive possession the court find but where the Aboriginal people have continue traditional interest which they share with the general community , '' he say . 
`` There be area of town where native title have be find to survive ( in other word not extinguish ) and there be very large area outside town , in particular the Aboriginal own pastoral property which have exclusive possession native title . '' 

Pilbara pastoral strike anniversary remember 
Indigenous people in Western Australia 's north-west be commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Pilbara pastoral strike . 
Aboriginal pastoral worker walk off station on May 1 , 1946 , demand wage and good condition . 
Fran Heintz from the Wanga Maya Aboriginal Language Centre say the event have a massive impact on Indigenous worker . 
`` It 's be a fairly significant event for the region and in many way we believe it 's a significant national event , '' he say . 
`` Some people actually call it the black Eureka . It do set what 's be in place now for 60 year and that be the equal respect . 

Cattlemen unable to find murdered teen 
Cattlemen in Victoria 's Barmah forest have be unable to assist police in find a murdered teenager miss since April last year . 
Detectives ask the cattleman to keep an eye out during their annual muster at the weekend . 
Raymond Allen , 17 , from Mooroopna , be believe to have be kill and bury in the forest on the bank on the Murray River . 
But Kelvin Trickey from the Barmah Cattlemen 's Association say nothing be find . 
`` We have n't detect anything at all ... we 're always track for cattle , look for foot mark and that all through the bush , '' he say . 

Parade herald start to muster season 
The main street of Alice Springs be close today to pay tribute to the local cattle industry . 
The Bangtail parade celebrate the traditional start to the central Australian mustering season . 
Historically the May Day weekend be when cattle from station around Alice Springs be march through the street to the year 's first sale . 
Today there be no cattle in sight but the Alice Springs mayor will lead the parade watch by about 5,000 people a it make it way through the centre of the town . 
But while Alice Springs be a hive of activity , it be somewhat more quiet on the station . 

Athletic mare take out campdraft comp 
An athletic mare call Roanys Chex , ridden by central Queenslander Pete Comiskey , have take out Australia 's rich campdraft at Rockhampton . 
Record number of rider compete over the weekend in front of what organiser say be it big ever crowd . 
Mr Comiskey say his $ 20,000 share of the prizemoney will come in handy . 
`` Most certainly there 's always plenty of cost in campdrafting , '' he say . 
`` It 's always a great honour to win the big one and this mare have be very successful for u , to win the clock last year and the Gold cup , and we 're very lucky to have her on the truck . '' 

Skilled migrant ' minimum wage may hurt business 
Meat processor say the Federal Government 's decision to set a new minimum wage for temporary migrant worker will hurt regional business . 
Workers on temporary visa will have to be pay a minimum of $ 42,000 a year after union claim local job be be undercut . 
The Federal Government say the decision be to help Australia compete against other nation in the fight to attract employee . 
Kevin Cottrill from the Meat Industry Council say while it will not stop employer from take on migrant worker , it will add to cost . 
`` The big risk I guess be that the expectation of current employee and of union be that there might be a 7 per cent increase across the board in wage , that would be the big danger , '' he say . 
`` We 're look at something in excess of 7 per cent which be a substantial increase give the current rate of inflation so it will certainly have an affect on the cost of the industry . '' 

Rural student seek to fill mine job vacancy 
The education sector in South Australia will recruit student from rural area to meet the need of the state 's mining boom . 
With concern over future labour shortage , a new degree in mine engineering will be offer at the University of Adelaide next year . 
Inaugural Professor of Mining Geology , Ian Plimer , say the new course will specifically seek student from outside the city . 
`` We be really target student from the rural area because the mining take place in the rural area , '' he say . 

Animal right group target child in education campaign 
An animal right group have announce plan to target 3 million child in 9,000 school with a program it say teach compassion and respect for animal . 
Voiceless have launch it Animal Club project on the Internet , encourage child to speak out against factory farming , live export , and kangaroo culling . 
Education Manager Elaine Morris , say it be the first national animal education initiative for child . 
`` All Animal Club really want to do be just provide child with the opportunity to harness that natural empathy that most child have for animal , and look at them through a child 's eye , '' she say . 

Blueprint target strategies to combat rural suicide 
The Federal Government have be present with a blueprint outline 23 way to ease the mental health crisis in regional Australia . 
The release of the blueprint mark the launch of the Rural Mental Health Network , a partnership of 19 stakeholder from New South Wales . 
The Rural Mental Health Network include mental health support group , charity organisation , government department and farm representative 
The network say male farmer death from suicide be double that of any other group in the population and be urge government to take action say the drought may end , but ramification such a depression and financial hardship continue for many year . 

Farmer confidence fall a oil price rise 
High oil price and rise Australian dollar have hurt confidence level among farmer . 
The National Australia Bank 's agribusiness monitor show more farmer report poor condition in the March quarter than in the December quarter , although they be generally optimistic about the long term . 

Machinery demand fall in wake of low grain price 
Low grain price be be blame for a big drop off in demand for broadacre tractor and machinery over the past 12 month . 
Sales be boom in the sugar , dairy and horticulture sector for small equipment , but Vin Delahunty from the Tractor and Machinery Association say grain farmer be hold off . 
`` People who be rely on sale into the crop area have really struggle , '' she say . 

Canola grower may benefit from high oil price 
The high price of crude oil be cause plenty of headache , but there could be a positive spin-off for canola grower . 
European country and the US be focus more attention on alternative way of produce power . 
David Syme from the Grain Pool in Western Australia say they will be look for more canola . 
Particularly in Germany , there 's quite a number of new biodiesel plant go up , and that 's of course consume a lot of their rapeseed oil , '' he say . 

Fertiliser supplier 's half-year profit rise 
Fertiliser supplier Incitec Pivot have report a turnaround , post a half-year profit of more than $ 27 million up nearly 60 per cent on last year . 
The company say it be a result of a restructure and high fertiliser price . 

Climate change may shift Goyder 's Line 
Climate change could force South Australia 's iconic Goyder 's Line to shift 100 kilometre south . 
The imaginary line be draw in 19th century by surveyor general George Goyder mark the 250 millimetre rainfall area from the Eyre Peninsula around to the Riverland . 
He believe the region north of the line should not be crop . 
Peter Hayman from the South Australian Research and Development Institute say with an increase in temperature and a reduction in rainfall , the line could shift a far south a the Clare Valley . 
`` What we find be that the bad scenario , so the bad amount of warm and the most extreme scenario be for it to move by 2070 as far a a somewhere like Clare , '' he say . 

Turnbull hear river flow worry 
The Parliamentary Secretary responsible for water , Malcolm Turnbull , have enter the debate over cross-border water flow in the Condamine Balonne river system . 
Landholders in north-western New South Wales have long complain they be miss out because Queensland irrigators be allegedly extract too much water north of the border . 
Mr Turnbull meet landholder yesterday and say while the Federal Government can not force Queensland to change it water management policy , the problem must be address . 
`` There be no question in my mind that when the allocation of water be make in Queensland over the last 2O to 30 year , little or no regard be have to the downstream consequence in New South Wales , '' he say . 

Dam compo discussion too early , say minister 
The Queensland Government say it be too early to discuss compensation for farmer affect by a propose new dam near Gympie , in the state 's south-east . 
The Government be plan to build a 660,000 megalitre dam on the Mary River , which would involve the resumption of 900 property . 
But Water Minister Henry Palaszczuk say it will be a number of week before the Government decide if it will definitely go ahead with the plan . 
`` Currently it 's under investigation but if the number stack up , of course that will become the site , '' he say . 

Commercial beekeeper close up shop 
The commercial beekeeping industry in the Northern Territory have decide to call it a day . 
After the poor season in memory involve flood , termite , cane toad and a depressed honey market , Kevin Eastburn from the NT Beekeepers ' Association say they simply can not continue . 
He say his great concern at this point be what the decision will mean for other industry , which rely on local bee for pollination . 

Pearl farm purchase 'positive sign for industry ' 
There be change under way in Australia 's pearling industry , with a major distributor and marketing company buy it first pearl farm . 
The Autore group have pay $ 15 million for Broome-based Clipper Pearls . 
Brett McCallum from the Pearl Producers Association say after a tough few year in the sector , the deal have inject a bit of confidence in the sector . 
`` I think that someone like Autore who be as close to the market and as close to the pearling world a he be , have obviously get great confidence in invest a significant amount of money in this industry , '' he say . 

Tokyo restaurant to use Victorian produce 
The Bracks Government be back a restaurant in Tokyo , which will offer food make entirely from Victorian produce . 
Locally-grown beef , lettuce and olive oil will be among the ingredient on the menu at Hiroo 148 . 
Ross Clarke from the Department of Primary Industries say it be design to help producer overcome communication problem with Japanese distributor . 
`` When you put a new product into the Japanese market it take some time to develop a supply chain , '' he say . 
`` Translation be a real issue and communicate with importer about your product . 

Beef brand celebrate program benefit 
The benefit of market food from paddock to plate be be mark by the 10th birthday of one of Australia 's big beef brand . 
Certified Australian Angus Beef begin by supply 12 steer for a Melbourne restaurant . 
It now kill 2,000 head of cattle a week , with 80 per cent of the product export . 
Chief executive Michael Pointer say the program have add vale to the product and boosted demand for angus genetics . 
`` Very simply Certified Australian Angus Beef do not own an animal or a kilogram of beef , '' he say . 

Results of sheep pesticide review still some time away 
It will be several month before a report into the health effect of a common sheep pesticide be make public . 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority be conduct a review into diazinon , which be use to treat louse and flystrike in sheep , after it use cause serious health concern for some rural worker . 

Tests clear Australian wheat shipment 
Authorities in India have now clear a shipment of Australian wheat , just two day after claim it contain an unacceptable level of pesticide . 
A second round of test have find no contamination in the 50,000 tonne consignment , which be be unload at the port of Chennai . 
AWB 's Peter McBride say the company be not yet sure what cause the mix-up . 
`` AWB have be officially inform that the wheat have be fully clear by Indian authority and the shipment be currently unload at Chennai in India , '' he say . 
`` We have some meeting late yesterday , we 'll obviously have further meeting today but the good news be the wheat have be clear . '' 

Rates hike to hurt commodity outlook 
The Reserve Bank 's decision to lift interest rate be more bad news for farmer , follow on from high fuel price . 
The interest rate rise , to 5.75 per cent , be the first in more than 14 month . 
Senior analyst with Hartleys , Rob Brierley , say the announcement will hurt the outlook for commodity . 
`` Most of the commodity be price in US dollar so it mean that the seller of the commodity actually get less in Australian dollar for it , '' he say . 

Farmers dispute Govt report figure 
Vegetable grower say the Federal Government have make up figure in a report , which show extend country of origin food label would cost consumer $ 120 million a year . 
Farmers want the label on package and can food as well a fresh produce to give consumer more information and promote locally grown fruit and vegetable . 
But the Government say the study show the cost of the change would far outweigh the benefit for both consumer and grower . 
John Roach from grower group AusVeg say the study be base on flaw data . 
But while reject new law to enforce more detailed label , Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say he want to change the Trade Practices Act to give consumer more accurate information . 
He say under the change , 'made in Australia ' would be replace for some package food to 'grown in Australia ' . 

Fruit grower attend crisis summit 
Australia 's summerfruit industry be draft an action plan to try to keep producer in business . 
Peach , nectarine , plum , apricot and apple grower be battle cheap import and a lack of export sale since access to Taiwan be restrict last season . 
Fruit grower be still thrash out the detail at a crisis summit in Melbourne , but Heather Chong from Summerfruit Australia say some priority be emerge . 

Wool pool to help Tas grower 
In a departure from the traditional auction system , wool grower in Tasmania will be able to sell their fibre through a new wool pool . 
Agribusiness Roberts Limited have launch Wool Link to market Tasmanian grown and brand wool direct to the fashion house of Japan and the US . 
Ten thousand bale will be sell in the first year , and the company say grower will be pay more than they have receive on average in the auction room . 
Marketing manager Eric Hutchinson admit there be bind to be scepticism . 
`` And for some it 's go to be a leap of faith in what we can deliver , there 's no doubt about that , '' he say . 

US producer implement animal ID system 
US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns say major beef buyer have give the country little choice but to implement a national animal ID system . 
The National Animal Identification System could become compulsory if not enough US producer volunteer to join by 2009 . 
Mr Johanns say in response to industry opponent of animal ID in US , major beef competitor Australia and Canada have already implement system to trace and contain disease outbreak . 
And most recently , Mr Johanns cite retail demand in Australia . 
`` I just notice that in Australia , a representative of McDonalds , which of course be a major purchaser of beef , make a statement about the need for this animal ID system . '' 
Mr Johanns predict the US industry will have to change with the time , despite some who oppose new cost and less corporate privacy . 

Restraint box to improve cattle slaughter in SE Asia 
Australia be invest almost a million dollar to improve the slaughter of cattle in South-East Asia . 
Fifty restraint box be be instal at abattoir across Indonesia and Malaysia . 
The aim be to ensure all Australian cattle be process humanely within two year . 
Meat and Livestock Australia 's Patrick Underwood say he be confident the box will be use . 
`` It 's a fully galvanise and enclose box , whereby the animal enters through a raceway into an abattoir , be place in a restraining box and restrain prior to slaughter , '' he say . 
`` I have form an animal welfare task force , with member of APFINDO ( the Indonesian feedlotters and farmer association ) , so the Indonesian importer be with u , illustrate the clear benefit of use these restrain box . '' 

Beef Australia under way in Rockhampton 
Australia 's big beef industry event be under way in central Queensland . 
Rockhampton host Beef Australia every three year , claim it be the country 's beef capital . 
Fifty thousand people be in the city and over 200 head of stud cattle from 34 breed , make it one of the large display in one place in one time in the world . 
And the world be in Rockhampton - 450 delegate from 27 country include Argentina , Indonesia and China . 
It be not all conference and seminar though . The Iron Man and Woman event will see competitor eat marinate bull testicle and there 's a great debate , be beef well than sex ? 

Decision to abandon water transport plan 'not surprising ' 
Residents of Western Australia 's far north say they be relieve at a decision to abandon plan to transport Kimberley water to Perth . 
Three option be investigate by the State Government , involve a water pipeline , a canal or transport by sea . 
None have be find to be economically viable . 
Kununurra resident Dick Pasfield say he be not surprised , 
`` I think there be a reasonable amount of scepticism about whether a project like this would actually be viable in term of the economics , '' he say . 
`` I guess that what the report have say be basically what a lot of people think in the first place , that it 's go to cost far too much money to do a project like this . '' 
The WA government be still on the hunt for alternate water source , look at option include the Yarragadee aquifer in the state 's south-west . 

Aboriginal corporation fin for neglect cattle 
An Aboriginal corporation in Western Australia have be fin $ 10,000 for fail to provide sufficient water for 1,500 head of cattle on a station in the state 's interior . 
The fine be hand down yesterday after the Windidda Aboriginal Corporation plead guilty to the charge bring by the RSPCA . 
Tim Darcy from the Pastoralists and Graziers Association say it be important that livestock producer from across Australia stick to animal welfare standard . 

Dry condition take their toll in NSW 
Dry condition be continue to hurt in New South Wales , where producer in the Upper Hunter be be knock back from graze cattle on the travel stock route . 
A lack of water be be blame for the situation in Singleton , Scone and Merriwa , where some producer be wait up to 12 month to access reserve . 
Scone ranger Gerard McLaughlin say he do not have a choice , with half the water point in his area dry . 
`` There 's 590 head at the moment wander around the road in my area ... there could probably be a lot more if we have water that 's the problem , '' he say . 
`` At the moment I 'm get more and more request for people want to go on the road but it 's a bit awkward when you ca n't access water . '' 

Farmers battle fleabane 
Farmers in Western Australia be battle a nightmare weed which can take over paddock and be difficult to kill . 
The area affect by fleabane on the south coast be increase rapidly , with the tall woody plant also spread into agricultural area far north . 
Dr Sally Peltzer from the state Department of Agriculture and Food say good summer rainfall have make the problem worse . 
`` I 've be out and about actually try to collect a bit of fleabane and I have see some pretty nasty paddock , '' she say . 
`` It look bad because they 're sort of tall and hairy look so that do n't tend to look , compare to the other , pasture plant or whatever . '' 

Govt holiday worker scheme to be extend 
A scheme to use backpacker to ease labour shortage in the horticulture and cropping sector be be extend to cover livestock , forestry and fishing . 
From July , holiday maker who work for three month in job like shearing , stock handling and pearling will be able to apply for a second 12 month visa . 
The Federal Government will also double the length of time backpacker can work for one employer - from three to six month . 
The National Farmers Federation 's Denita Wawn say producer would prefer to employ local worker but there be not enough people willing to work in regional Australia . 
`` At NFF certainly it be our preference that we can [ use ] local to work in these job but experience show that people , a lot of people simply be n't interested in work in agriculture , '' she say . 
But some primary industry be highly critical of the change . 
The Territory 's pearling industry say the increase to six month work placement will not solve labour shortage , because that 's still not long enough to cover the cost of induction and training . 
The Horticultural Association say the extension will benefit the nursery , prune and pack industry but spokeswoman Tracey Leo say there could be a big impact on the mango harvest . 
`` We be see a thinning of the available labour pool . So in short I guess we be now go into competition with industry that we may not have be compete for labour with before , '' she say . 
`` In our high volume year , they [ foreign worker ] be a significant portion of our labour force . 

Failure to reach trade deal could delay Doha talk : Vaile 
Despite miss a crucial deadline in global negotiation to reduce trade distort tariff and subsidy in agriculture , Trade Minister Mark Vaile say a deal can be reach this year . 
Mr Vaile fly back into Australia this morning after talk in Europe and say the European Union be now look at further reduction in the financial support it give to farmer . 
But he be warn a failure to get a deal this year , could delay the Doha Round of talk until 2011 . 
`` That be the great unknown because once we go beyond the northern summer which be fundamentally August , the farm Bill have to be renew and there 's already pressure come on in Congress in Washington to start write a new farm Bill , '' he say . 

Govt urge to help pay-off wool debt 
The wool industry have make a united call on the Federal Government to help pay a $ 27 million debt owe by it marketing arm , Australian Wool Services ( AWS ) . 
AWS have be responsible for a UK-based superannuation fund for former employee since privatisation in 2000 , which be cost the company more than $ 1.2 million a year . 
The debt be hold up any possibility of a merger with research group , Australian Wool Innovation . 
AWS chairman Barry Walker hop industry delegate will meet with Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran within week . 
`` We 've be try now for some 20 month with the Government to get this on the agenda and to get recognition of the issue , '' he say . 

Poppy processor slash price 
The poppy industry have take another hit , with processor Tasmanian Alkaloids slash price to grower by 17 per cent . 
Two week ago Tasmania 's other processor , GlaxomSmithKline cut it crop area by 90 per cent . 
Lyndley Chopping from the Tasmanian Poppy Growers Association say the late price cut can not be support . 
`` We can not recommend the price to the grower and we 're not recommend the price to the grower , '' he say . 
`` We feel a though the company be take advantage of the situation . 
`` We 're very upset with the result of this . So the grower do their figure a to whether they grow again or whether they give the land a spell , or whether they go into another crop or another enterprise . That 's their call . '' 

Snowy Hydro inquiry wo n't delay sale 
The New South Wales Government say plan to privatise Snowy Hydro will not be delay by a parliamentary inquiry into the sale . 
A New South Wales Upper House committee make up of Government , Opposition and cross bench member will investigate concern about the privatisation . 
The inquiry be due to report back in late October , although the State Government say the sale will proceed by the middle of the year . 
Opposition natural resource spokesman Adrian Piccoli deny it be too late to make a difference . 

Minister launch wind farm discussion paper 
The Federal Government be investigate a national code for wind farm development , to try to stop conflict in rural community . 
The Government be embroil in a legal stoush with Victoria , after overturn approval for a major new wind farm in Gippsland in order to save the endanger orange-bellied parrot . 
Environment Minister Ian Campbell have launch a discussion paper on the propose code , which he say may be the best way of resolve dispute . 

Vic juice grade apple ca n't find buyer 
Cartons of juice grade apple be be leave in Victorian packing shed this harvest . 
Growers say they be be offer an opening price of $ 55 a tonne , which be not enough to cover freighting and picking cost . 
Beechworth grower Rob Tully say there be added frustration from city-based juice bar , which will only take a-grade fruit . 
`` Even the juice bar though , be very quality conscious and although they 're only make juice fruit they 're fairly conscious if the fruit have too many mark on it , '' he say . 

WA potato farmer battle watery condition 
Waterlogged crop be make harvest difficult for the second year in a row for seed potato producer on WA 's south coast . 
Potatoes from the Albany area usually contribute between $ 3 million and $ 4 million to the state 's $ 10 million industry , which export to South-East Asia and Mauritius . 
But wet summer and autumn condition have halt mechanical harvesting , and Terry Ackley from the WA Potato Growers Association say spud be rot in the ground . 
`` Swamps be still very wet from the last season and we never really have a hot , dry summer to dry them completely , '' he say . 
`` And of course this rain have be devastate again . 

Agfest crowd brave the Tassie cold 
It have be a chilly start to Tasmania 's annual rural field day , Agfest , in the state 's north . 
Coffee sale be up but farm machinery sale be expect to be down . 
Querkus Park be a sea of tent , marquee and pavilion , and with an early taste of winter chill , stall with heater be prove very popular today . 
Agfest be the major gathering for rural industry with more than 700 exhibitor and sale be see a a barometer of the state 's rural industry . 
This year , sale be expect to reflect the contract cut in the poppy and vegetable industry . 
The bright spot though be the buoyant dairy industry . 

Lamb sale to Japan boom 
Sales of Aussie lamb into Japan be boom , with annual growth rate of up to 70 per cent . 
Japanese importer Top Trader say lamb be lose it reputation a an unpleasant smelly meat and the market be set to grow , despite loom competition from US beef . 
And the good time be set to continue . 
Meat and Livestock Australia 's Malcolm Harvey say Russia be emerge a the next big market for lamb . 
`` It 's not subject to any quota , the amount of money and wealth be generate in Russia be just something that 's hard for people to comprehend , and they love Australian lamb , '' he say . 

Competition hots up at Beef 2006 
It be another huge day at Beef 2006 in Rockhampton in central Queensland . 
There be very serious business take place , amid the trade fair rodeo and the sinking of a few ale . 
It be the big stud beef cattle ever hold in Australia with over 30 breed on show . 
The prime cattle competition be win by Ken McKenzie of Yaralla , near Blackwater in central Queensland . 

Farmers wary of govt change to fuel rebate 
Farmers already fight high interest rate and the strong Aussie dollar now face change to their fuel bill from July 1 , which could add further pressure to their budget . 
The Federal Government will scrap a tax subsidy rebate worth up to three cent a litre to regional motorist , and change the 18-cent a litre on-road energy credit scheme . 
Under the scheme , farmer and transport operator will receive their fuel rebate off their GST bill , instead of a cash grant pay directly into their bank account . 
Luke Fraser from the Livestock Transporters Association say the change will create a cash flow headache for rural and regional business . 
`` We have a business where over 30 per cent of our total cost input be fuel . Farmers would probably understand that sentiment , '' he say . 
`` And in that sort of position , when you 're be ask to go through administrative hoop to try and claim that back , and you never actually see it in cash , it 's just come off a tax bill , well that 's a big change . 
`` To say , look on July 1 it 's all go to switch over and everyone will be fine , be incredibly naive and insulting . '' 
A spokesman for Assistant Treasurer Peter Dutton say it will be simpler in the long run to deliver the energy credit to farmer and trucker through their GST bill . 

Aileron resident don sombrero for Mexican mutton chase 
It be not often you see Mexicans swill tequila and rid donkey in central Australia . 
But this weekend at the bush carnival at Aileron , 130km north of Alice Springs , you have good be prepare to don a sombrero . 
While the adult gulp down bean and tequila and race donkey , organiser Sarah Debney say it be sheep that people really want to see . 
`` That 's the Mexican mutton chase ... we 've get team of two child and the team put on their poncho and hat and they run down the other end and do the same scull with water and baked bean , run back and we let sheep out of the shoot and they have to herd the sheep over the line , '' she say . 

Crowds flock to Broken Hill for Agfair 
The far western New South Wales city of Broken Hill be pack to capacity today , for the area 's big biennial event . 
There be not a spare motel room available in Broken Hill this weekend a swarm of people have converge into the city to celebrate Agfair . 
Three hundred exhibitor be on show slightly down on two year ago , a organiser claim high petrol price have discourage some from travel the distance . 

Exchange rate hit wool market 
Rising exchange rate and high pass-in rate have hit the wool market again this week . 
The eastern market indicator drop off 6 per cent , to finish the week at 708 cent a kilogram clean . 
Prices be 46 cent low than the season high in March . 
Among the offering be 1,700 bale offer by the New Zealand Merino Company . 
A whopping 41.6 per cent be pass in . 

Beef program add to producer return 
A new economic analysis have find the beef quality program MSA be add an extra 20 cent a kilo to beef producer ' return . 
The meat standard be develop by the Beef Cooperative Research Centre and use a set of scientific criterion to allow consumer to identify beef which be guarantee to be tender . 
Centre head Dr Heather Burrow say the program will add $ 85 million to beef revenue this financial year . 
Overall , she say it have generate three time what it cost to industry to develop . 
`` Averaging 20 cent a kilo , beef producer , retailer and processor be get a premium for beef that they can guarantee be good than every day eat quality , '' she say . 
The Bureau of Statistics will conduct a census of livestock producer for the first time in five year . 
It will collect data from 190,000 farm across the country and be expect to highlight the value of the cattle industry to the Australian economy . 
Census manager , Jim Williamson say the data will help to drive the live export industry . 
`` Being able to ensure we can meet future export market if we want to enter into future contract , we can be confident we have enough cattle to fill the contract , '' he say . 
`` People can keep a handle on whether the cattle herd be go up or down . '' 

Primary producer frustrate at lack of harvest labour support 
Primary producer in Western Australia be disappoint at miss out on harvest labour support . 
The Federal Government will fund service in 16 harvest area across Australia , but say tender from the west be not up to scratch . 
The service help to match the pool of worker with seasonal job vacancy . 
David McKerrell from the Kimberley Primary Industries Association say it be frustrate fund have not make it to all region 
`` It need to be recognise that there be production area right across Australia that have a requirement for harvest labour and all area should be give opportunity to take part in those sort of scheme , '' he say . 

Maritime protect area boundary to be announce 
The Federal Government will this afternoon announce the final boundary for marine protect area off the Tasmanian , Victorian and South Australian coast . 
They be expect to be significantly different to the Government 's initial proposal , which draw criticism from the fishing and scallop industry for be too strict . 
The Tasmanian scallop sector say it would be wipe out if the area be enforce . 

Poppy processor defends price cut 
Poppy processor , Tasmanian Alkaloids say it late price cut will not be a disaster for Tasmanian grower . 
The company will slash price for the come crop by 17 per cent , although it plan to double the size of it supply contract . 
The Poppy Growers Association say the price cut can not be support , but Rick Rockliff from Tasmanian Alkaloids say high yield variety and a good season should help farmer to improve their profit . 
`` We feel confident that if grower pay attention to detail and follow their field officer ' advice , give a more normal season , we 're pretty confident that growes will have substantially more money in their bank account this time next year , '' he say . 

NFF call for school to examine interest group 
The National Farmers Federation be call on government to ban special interest group from unvetted entry to school classroom . 
Animal right group Voiceless have launch a web-based education program which offer prize for the most humane school and encourage child to speak out about factory farming , kangaroo cull and live export . 
NFF president Peter Corrish say the website have link to extreme animal right group . 
`` What we 're say be the principal of each school and certainly the parent of the child involve need to have a look at this website and actually go to these link and see what information their child may be access , '' he say . 

Shareholders expect to launch class action against AWB 
A class action by shareholder against monopoly wheat exporter AWB be expect within week . 
Investors will seek compensation from AWB , allege the company do not report it activity truthfully . 
The Cole Inquiry have spend the past four month investigate AWB 's action under the oil for food program in Iraq . 
Ben Slade from Maurice Blackburn Cashman , say the class action will raise a number of issue . 
`` The most extraordinary positive act of mislead conduct we think be October 27 when the company issue a statement to the stock exchange after the Volcker suggestion be make in 2005 that the company may have be involve in sanction bust , '' he say . 
`` The company make a statement to the stock exchange that it be not . Well that 's another course of action that be even more powerful . '' 
AWB share have defy stockmarket trend to gain ground this week , despite the Reserve Bank 's decision to lift interest rate . 
AWB stock fell considerably during the Cole inquiry , but yesterday gain 5 per cent . 
Stockbrocker Matthew Baker say the prospect of more trade with India be behind the gain . 
`` But basically AWB have get on with it job and it 's go out there and it look like it 's go to win more business in India which be basically ship more product out the door , '' he say . 
`` Their price will vary because of the currency side but they 're happy because they 're go to be sell a lot more stock . '' 
The Indian Government be expect to announce a tender for 3 million tonne of wheat within a week . 
Soaring domestic price and a low than expect crop be put pressure on Indian authority to provide enough wheat for the population . 

Milk , cheese , yoghurt price to rise 
On top of petrol hike and high interest rate , the cost of food be now on the way up . 
National Foods and Fonterra say they will lift price for milk , cheese , yoghurt and fruit juice product by up to 3 per cent , and supermarket be expect to pass on the increase to shopper . 
The increase be to try to cope with increased packaging and transportation cost . 
For farmer it be a different story , with most unable to increase their price . 
Andrew Young from the Central Markets Association say farm gate price will not change just because wholesale price have go up . 
`` There 's not an automatic link essentially unless they 've get contract pricing in place , which for a lot of sector of the industry that just do n't exist , it 's commodity market pricing , '' he say . 

NFF seek regional road and rail spending commitment 
Farmers be call for regional road and rail spending to come before further investment in the Future Fund when Federal Treasurer Peter Costello hand down the Budget tomorrow night . 
The fund be design to cover future superannuation payment to public servant . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) be warn the Government against boost investment in the Future Fund and add to the surplus , at the expense of infrastructure spending and tax reform . 
Chief executive Ben Fargher say the Government must commit to lift the standard of grain rail line in New South Wales and Victoria . 
And he be call for basic all weather road access to farm and the sealing of all designate arterial road by 2013 . 
`` Farmers need to actually get the produce from to the farm to the National Highway in the first place , '' he say . 
Mr Costello be already talk up big money for regional road and rail , with spending expect to be in excess of a billion dollar . 
`` Better transport mean a good economy with a high speed limit for growth , '' he say . 
The Government be also hint at capital gain tax reform , which should help succession planning for farmer . 
Meanwhile transport operator in the Northern Territory be look for funding in the Budget to improve remote road . 
For the past fortnight 60 road train have be unable to cross the Victoria River , west of Katherine , due to damage cause to Highway One by flood . 
The delay be estimate to have cause the industry at least $ 7 million , with weight restriction only lift at the weekend to allow single trailer through . 
Scott Van-Loom of Shaw 's Darwin Transport want to see remote road funding announce tomorrow night . 
`` It have be the long [ delay ] for a number of year . It be two week , which just put Darwin in chaos from Perth , '' he say . 
`` We have seven road train there , there be a total of 60 wait in Kununurra to get through . That be come north , come south there be probably about 40 road train wait on this side . 

Oil price may pass $ US100 a barrel 
A transport expert say although biofuels and ethanol may help in the long term , nothing can stop oil price hit high of $ US100 a barrel . 
David Lamb , who head the Energy Flagship of the CSIRO , say there be no way production of any alternative fuel can match more than about 1 per cent of our energy need . 
His concern come a a world expert on energy market , Claude Mandil , warn that with strong demand and fall supply , oil price could eventually rise above $ US100 a barrel . 
Mr Lamb say without any alternative fuel , cut consumption be the only option . 
`` By 2011 our Government 's plan be to be produce 350 million litre of ethanol per year but that 's only about 1 per cent of the amount of oil we use so that 's no solution by 2011 , '' he say . 

Wool price expect to pick up 
A new report say wool price be about to climb again , despite seven week of loss . 
The eastern market indicator be 46 cent per kilogram below the seasonal high record in March . 
The late business survey from market body Woolmark say the fall be inevitable , with not enough demand to support high price . 
But with strong order come through from China , western Europe and East Asia , Woolmark economist Kerry Stott say price will pick up through the June quarter . 
`` It 's the best it 's be in almost five year , '' he say . 
`` The really good thing be that it 's more widespread geographically than in the past and not only that , it seem to be more widespread right through from comb through to weave . 
`` And I think if people look at what 's happen to our price in US dollar , and see that our price be still go up in US dollar , they 'd be pleasantly surprise . '' 
The eastern market indicator close at 708 cent a kilo clean on Friday . 
Woolmark 's prediction be be back by some analyst . 
Elders Queensland wool manager Maurie McNeill expect a decent recovery base on price indication out of China . 
`` We can probably see 20 per cent retracement of the loss that we 've see in this market over the last four or five week , particularly in the fine end of the market , '' he say . 

Fears new marine park boundary will force out fisherman 
The fishing industry say new boundary for propose marine park off the coast of Tasmania , Victoria and South Australia will not restrict commercial fishing as much a first thought . 
After complaint about the draft boundary , Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell have now finalise the plan for the marine protect area , which will cover 200,000 square kilometre of ocean . 
Although the Government will provide $ 220 million compensation , Ross McGowan from Seafood Industry Victoria be worry about fisherman who will be force out of the industry . 
`` For u to sit here and say 'it 's minimise ' be all well and good . But the end of the day these marine protect area will have a significant impact on some individual , so significant that they will have to get out of the industry , '' he say . 

Digging finally under way at new gold mine 
On the back of record price , another gold mine have open in Western Australia . 
Tanami Gold have begin work at the Coyote project in the Tanami Desert , south-east of Halls Creek . 
There have be delay to start the desert operation because of the wet season . 
With the price of gold above $ 880 , Tanami chairman Dennis Waddell be relieve to be finally dig . 
`` We 've have plenty of rain and that have just delay access more than anything , but we 've make that up , '' he say . 
`` We start mine on Friday , which be a pretty momentous day . The excavator and dump truck arrive last week and we take the first bucket of ore out on Friday afternoon . '' 

Resources boom raise housing shortage fear in silver city 
The resource boom have raise fear of a housing shortage in the silver city of Broken Hill , in far western New South Wales . 
With the opening of the Bemax mineral sand mine and the development of the Honeymoon uranium mine , there be concern the town will not be able to accommodate an influx of worker . 
Broken Hill real estate agent Jim Hickey say the mining industry be now look to house worker in serviced apartment , which be in short supply . 
`` We 're go to be shortly in need of some good development if other company start to bring people in , '' he say . 

Golden Circle back in the black 
Queensland food processor Golden Circle have announce a jump in profit , less than three month after appoint a new chief executive . 
Despite lose $ 26 million in 2003 , the company make a $ 10.4 million profit before tax last year . 
Chief executive John Cox say he have also improve communication between the company and it grower shareholder . 
`` Golden Circle recognise that we be go to have to do thing a lot smarter , and more in line with our grower , '' he say . 

Cotton result receed expectation 
A gamble on this year 's cotton crop appear to have pay off , although yield be down , and quality be mixed . 
With harvest in full swing in New South Wales , the result be good than expect , despite a record-breaking summer heatwave . 
Although grower in the Macquarie Valley face almost zero water allocation at the start of the season , Auscott Macquarie plant almost 75 per cent of it normal acreage . 
Managing director Chris Hogendyke say most have make it though . 
`` We get lot of allocation increase during the summer and the crop the crop turn out to be really good , '' he say . 
`` We 're look at about 10.5 bale per hectare average and we 're very happy with the result . 

Olive oil shortage drive up price 
South Australian olive grower be look forward to a bumper harvest this year , with price up and more order than oil . 
A poor European crop have compound a worldwide shortage of olive oil , push price up to between $ 5.50 and $ 6 a litre . 
Olives SA chair , Lisa Rowntree , say even with the high price , olive producer will not be able to harvest enough oil to meet demand . 
`` Sales be fantastic . This be very much a seller 's year for olive , '' she say . 
`` I 've sell everything that I 'm responsible for sell in the region and all the other grower a well have sell their olive and we could have sell them probably twice over . 

Gelbvieh bull take champion award 
A Gelbvieh breed of bull have be name supreme male champion at Australia 's big stud cattle competition at Rockhampton , in Queensland . 
More than 2,000 nomination across 33 breed for the title make it the big stud cattle competition in Australian history . 
Guyra producer Michael Jackson , who own the winning bull `` Double J Zulu '' , be understandably happy about the win . 
`` We have be show cattle for nearly 20 year now , and we 've never win anything like this , '' he say . 

Mine rescue comp highlight important skill 
Mine safety be in the spotlight , a rescue worker continue to try to free two trapped miner in Tasmania . 
Over the weekend miner in Western Australia have be test their rescue skill at the Surface Mines Rescue Competition in Kalgoorlie . 
Cindy Lewis from the Jundee gold mine , who win the best captain award , say competitor be think of the trapped miner and their rescuer in Beaconsfield . 
`` We be confront with a situation last year at our minesite , '' she say . 

Water cost to push commodity price up 
A national conference have hear rise water cost will push some irrigators out of primary production . 
The Irrigation Association of Australia 's conference in Brisbane have also hear high water cost will push up commodity price . 
Chief executive Jolyon Burnett say some irrigators face rise of up to 4,000 per cent , a water authority move to recover more of the delivery cost . 
`` It be important that we attach a more realistic value to water and that there be signal , if you like , to the grower to value that water and to improve their efficiency . '' 
Despite the rise cost , Professor Paul Perkins from the Australian National University predict Australia will be one of the few country in the world with enough water to grow it own food in 25 year time . 
He say it be a great opportunity to expand export . 
`` The global water shortage be much bad than the Australian water , so-called water crisis , '' he say . 

Vic expert play part in mine rescue 
Three mine explosive expert from Victoria have play a role in the final stage of the Beaconsfield Gold mine rescue . 
The tunnel inching towards the two trap men hit very hard silt stone , which resist the hand drill and jack hammer . 
General manager of Stawell Gold Mines Mark Mitchell say the men test the explosive in other part of the mine before they have to be use in the Beaconsfield rescue shaft . 
`` We send the guy down to help with the PCS type explosive , which you would have hear people talk about , '' he say . 
`` We use that at Stawell Gold Mines for a number of task . It 's something we use in the normal course of our operation . We do n't consider it to be a particularly specialist thing , it 's just something we have some experience in . 

India tender for 3m tonne of wheat import 
Wheat exporter AWB will face tough competition in the late tender from India for 3 million tonne of wheat , which be announce overnight . 
The Indian market have emerge this year a a replacement for traditional market in the Middle East , which be buy cheap wheat from Europe and the Black Sea . 
Grains analyst Malcolm Bartholomaeus say that have leave Australia and the US struggle to find other customer for last year 's bumper crop . 
`` India be very important both for Australia and for the global wheat market this year , '' he say . 
`` Egypt , of course , be a major importer of wheat . Right at the moment they tend to be favour cheap wheat out of Europe and Russia , so that both Australia and the US be miss out on that particular market . 
`` In term of the Australian crop , and obviously lose a lot of market share in Iraq , India be equally important from that perspective as well . '' 
While AWB have confirm it will tender for the contract , detail on price and volume remain confidential . 
Meanwhile , it be unclear if some of AWB 's legal cost for the Cole inquiry will come out of the return for the national pool . 
The legal bill be likely to have blow out from the $ 16 million AWB shareholder be tell about at the annual general meeting in February . 
The chairman of AWB International , Ian Donges , say AWB Limited be pick up all account at the moment . 
But he say there be still discussion about whether some of those should be pass onto AWB International on behalf of the pool . 

Local council 'starved of fund ' 
With a quarter of all local council in New South Wales on the brink of financial collapse , farmer be call for change to Australia 's system of government . 
A symposium hold in Sydney have hear expert on governance discus how local council be struggle to cope with new responsibility and a lack of fund . 
Former president of the NSW Farmers Association , Mal Peters , say state government be ignore rural community and what be need be a system of government that be close to the people . 

Credit scheme change anger farmer 
Impending change to the energy grant credit scheme have not be welcome in rural Australia . 
Until now , claim the 18 cent a litre credit have be a simple process of post off a claim form and get the money back quickly . 
But from July 1 , the fuel rebate will be deliver through the GST reporting process . 
For farmer and other agricultural business who be not file a monthly Business Activity Statement , it will take much long to get the money back . 
Livestock transporter Jim Savage , from Tamworth in New South Wales , fear delayed payment will create problem with cash flow . 
`` See you , you get ta be up front to pay your fuel bill , otherwise there 'd be no fuel , '' he say . 

Bananas do big business for NSW farmer 
Banana grower on the north coast of New South Wales be continue to harvest some spectacular profit in the wake of cyclone Larry . 
Mullumbimby wholesaler Jan Trueman say carton of fruit that fetch about $ 10 to $ 12 before the devastation of the Queensland industry , be now worth between $ 60 and $ 80 . 
He say it be set to become even more lucrative a winter approach . 
`` Oh most definitely , for sure , '' he say . 
`` Our fruit be , y'know , be at a premium now and go into winter , I mean our fruit start to slow up anyway , so it 's only go to get dearer and dearer . 

World trade change pose problem for fruit grower 
Tasmanian apple grower be feel the pressure of change in Australian horticulture and be host a meeting later this month to address their future . 
Thomas Frankcomb from Fruit Growers Tasmania say the industry be at `` yet another cross road '' , with significant change in global production , market price and the threat of cheap import fruit . 
He hop the meeting will help grower make choice about their future and believe the issue be big than just one state or one sector . 

PETA take aim at Middle East 
Animal right group PETA say it will target Middle Eastern country for the first time , a part of it campaign to stop live export from Australia . 
The group say it will reveal alleged abuse in slaughterhouse in several Gulf country at a press conference next week in Dubai . 

Incitec Pivot to buy Southern Cross 
In a complex stock market deal , superphosphate fertiliser company Incitec Pivot have announce it plan to buy out Australia 's only producer of ammonium phosphate , Southern Cross . 
Trading in Incitec Pivot share have be halt for two day while share holder learn detail of the deal , which include Orica sell it 70 per cent share hold in Incitec . 
Incitec will recommend share holder buy back Orica share . 
Chairman of Incitec Pivot John Watson say the 35,000 farmer with share in the company should enjoy significant growth in profit . 
`` All this do be add to our manufacturing base a very important strategic asset , not only for our business but for the farmer of Australia a well , '' he say . 

Scientists successfully grow southern bluefin tuna cell culture 
In a world first , South Australian scientist have grow cell culture of the southern bluefin tuna . 
Flinders University and the CSIRO have grow the cell so they can experiment with antioxidant to extend the shelf life of tuna and test for virus . 
Dr Kathy Schuller from Flinders University say it be much cheap than use live tuna worth $ 50 a kilogram . 
`` We can test 24 different concentration and combination of antioxidant at a time , '' she say . 

Unwanted grape to be use in non-alcoholic sparkling wine 
A small group of grape grower in South Australia hope to use up their unwanted fruit by crack into the non-alcoholic sparkling wine market . 
The Virginia Horticulture Centre , north of Adelaide , have begin a pilot project to see if it be viable . 

Dingoes may be use to sniff out cane toad 
Enlisting dingo be the late suggestion to help keep Western Australia free of cane toad . 
Dog trainer Sarah Fyffe have apply for a licence to use dingo a sniffer dog at the border and in bushland between Western Australia and the Northern Territory . 
She say dingo be natural for the outdoor job , 
`` We 're not talk about work in a building , we 're not talk about work in an airport , we 're talk about work in rugged terrain , '' she say . 
`` [ It be ] very unforgiving - and where 's the dingo from ? That 's it natural habitat and they cope brilliantly with it and know how to handle the element . '' 

Budget good news for rural Australians 
There be a fair bit of good news for rural Australia out of Treasurer Peter Costello 's 11th Budget . 
There be more than $ 2 billion in extra funding for road and rail , money for the Murray River and a big crackdown on illegal fishing . 
There be also wide range tax cut , which be suppose to leave more money in our pocket and change to capital gain tax to make it easy for farmer to pass on their property . 
President of the National Farmers Federation Peter Corish be certainly happy . 
`` This Budget be probably the most positive budget that Treasurer Costello have deliver for rural Australia , '' he say . 
`` NFF have three major priority lead into this Budget , the first one be sustainability , the second one be infrastructure and the third one be taxation relief for rural Australia . 
`` And I can say that positively we 've have movement on all three area . '' 
More rural Australians will also be able to access the age pension . 
There will also be incentive for farm and mining business to invest in new plant and equipment with change to depreciation rate . 
There will also be around $ 50 million for extra mental health service in country area . 

Vaile start Budget sell 
The Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Nationals , Mark Vaile , have be out this morning tell rural area the Budget set up the bush to take advantage of the current resource boom through big infrastructure spending . 
He be especially proud , a most National party member be , of the $ 2.4 billion in road fund he say the Nationals have help secure . 
`` If you be talk about regional Australia , my view be one of the most important targeted component in this budget be that $ 307 million of extra money direct at local government for local road and bridge this year , they 're the important thing to regional Australia , '' he say . 
When Australia 's peak rural lobby group the National Farmers Federation say this be the best Budget in 11 year , that should not leave too much room for the Opposition to be critical . 
But that have not stop Labor 's agriculture spokesman Gavan O'Connor describe the Budget a missed opportunity . 
His point be you can have all the new bitumen in world but if it be not too dear to drive on that bitumen because of high fuel price and high interest rate , well the big spending backfire . 
He be also talk up what he say be the Government 's failure to target it infrastructure spending , failure to address environmental issue and failure to ease skill shortage in regional area . 
`` No mention of the productivity challenge and no attempt to get on top of the foreign debt , '' he say . 
`` No attempt to address the massive skill crisis in rural Australia and there 's no movement on the last great frontier for Australian agriculture that be the regeneration of our soil . 
`` There be no attempt to engineer through these expenditure a new wave of research and innovation in the rural sector . 
`` On that basis I think there will be some significant question ask about this Budget . '' 

Punters 
What do the punter think of the Budget ? 
`` For me , I 'm in a retirement age so the amount that I can earn tax-free have go up , the threshold there , so I think the threshold for low-income earner have be very good , '' one person say . 
`` It 's quite encouraging about the water , that 's go to be the big problem and I think people in the town have get to realise that they 've get to pay more for their water and not be so greedy and they 've get to do something about storage , '' another say . 
`` I think the Budget lack vision because it should have look at the long term infrastructure issue and I just think that politician be drive by short term decision make all the time which we pay a big price for , '' a third person say . 

Economist warn about spending 
The tax cut be expect to ease pressure on rural household which have face high petrol price and grocery bill in recent month . 
The expert say while the cut will not put pressure on interest rate in the short term , there be no guarantee the Reserve Bank will not increase rate towards the end of the year . 
ANZ chief economist Saul Eslake say there be still reason to be cautious about spending . 
`` Even allow for the fact that people in rural area tend to drive long distance than those in the city , the tax cut be enough to offset the most recent roughly 10 cent a litre increase in petrol price and the rise in interest rate , '' he say . 
`` But any further rise in petrol price or indeed in interest rate would probably be sufficient to eliminate the benefit of the Budget tax cut altogether . '' 
Meanwhile Treasurer Peter Costello tell a medium conference yesterday the only way fuel price will come down be if the cost of crude oil fall . 
There be more than $ 11 million allocate for two new study on the use of biofuels but Greens Senator Christine Milne say Mr Costello be waste his time spending up big on road , when it be become too expensive to drive on them . 
`` He 's about the only person in Australia who do n't see increase oil price a a major issue , '' she say . 

Industry group concern about lack of initiative 
There be concern about a lack of initiative in the Budget to improve the national skill base and tackle the labor shortage in Australia . 
Although new measure have be announce to make it easy for overseas worker , the Australian Industry Group say the Budget should have make more progress in big nation building project . 
While happy with many of the initiative announce for business and the road funding , Heather Ridout say there be a long way to go to provide the necessary infrastructure to improve productivity and cope with future demand . 
`` I think that 's another area where there could have be more do , '' she say . 
`` They 're certainly bring forward some of the spending which be important , some increase in road funding but it need a more coherent plan . 
`` We still need good interaction between road and rail , I think we still need more of a national plan and that 's get to be really agree between the state be very big spender in this area . 

Little in budget to encourage exploration , say mining group 
The WA Chamber of Minerals and Energy say there be little in the Budget to encourage exploration in the resource sector . 
The industry want a flow-through share scheme to boost exploration but do not have any joy last night . 
Chamber director David Parker say more need to be do there as well . 
`` This be something which industry have be argue for a number of year , '' he say . 
`` We see exploration a very much the future of the resource industry . 
`` We be tend to rest on our laurel in term of the future sustainability of the industry . 
`` I think if you look at the medium to long term outlook for renew Australia 's resource inventory we really be at cross road . 

Budget fail to tackle climate change , green group say 
The Federal Government have come under fire from green group , which claim the Budget fail to tackle climate change . 
The major allocation in environmental spending be $ 500 million for the Murray Darling Basin Commission . 
That money will fund project like salt interception scheme , fishways , local and weir upgrade , and possibly buy water from farmer . 
South Australian River Murray Minister Karlene Maywald say the money have be desperately need . 
`` Projects be underfunded , the Murray Darling Basin Commission be underfunded , our project that we all agree to from a jurisdictional point of view be all start to slip and it look like we be never go to achieve what we need to do to save the River Murray , '' she say . 

Budget boost funding for illegal fishing fight 
The Federal Government have announce a big crack down on illegal fishing in Australia 's northern water . 
The $ 389 million package be design to double the number of boat apprehend each year through increase surveillance and patrol , along with improved boat-burning facility to destroy illegal fishing boat . 
Indigenous coastal ranger will also be employ a part of the plan but Gary Ward from the Gulf of Carpentaria Commercial Fishermen 's Association say the money be be use in the wrong way . 
`` Spending this money on Aboriginal community be very fine but you 're talk about a radius of probably 25 kilometre each side of the community , '' he say . 
`` Now these boat range widely over the Gulf of Carpentaria , we need more surveillance but we need more active now , the fishing fraternity in the Gulf of Carpentaria that 's work so hard for a sustainable and viable fishery have be leave out in the lurch . '' 

Plan unveil to secure veg industry future 
A new $ 3 million strategy to secure the future of the vegetable industry have be unveil in Brisbane this morning . 
VegVision 2020 be the product of month of talk between grower , the Federal Government , supermarket and food processor . 
It be a $ 3 million plan with a very simple message - how to lift the industry 's growth from an unsustainable 3 per cent by get more vegetable on consumer ' plate . 
Fair Dinkum Food Campaigner Richard Bovill be a member of the Australian Vegetable Industry Development Group and say grower must work with retailer and processor if they be to secure their future . 
`` There be adversarial issue out there , there will always be competitive pressure but we also have to understand our common goal and work together with those , '' he say . 
`` I think we can look to a range of different industry model and we should n't just look at vegetable and the horticultural sector . '' 

US Farm Bill debate begin 
The battle have start early in Washington over the next US Farm Bill , due to be draft next year . 
The White House and Congress do not see eye to eye on farm policy . 
While US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and the White House be call for sweep change in US farm policy , lawmaker be defend the status quo . 
Top Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee Collin Peterson tell a farm bill field hearing in Texas , US agriculture should not be single out for cut . 
`` This budget talk irritate me a little bit because agriculture do not cause these budget problem . And I do not agree that we ought to be the one that have to pay the price because we 've actually save money , '' he say . 

Row erupts between Grains Council and Agriculture Minister 
A rift have emerge between Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran and Australia 's peak grain lobby . 
The Grains Council be outrage that the oil-for-food inquiry be be use a an excuse to backflip on plan to reduce a key levy for the Wheat Export Authority . 
The council want the industry levy reduce from 22 cent a tonne to 19 , leave the authority with a million dollar cash surplus . 
Spokesman David Ginns say the surplus will now be double and have accuse Mr McGauran of ignore grower . 
`` There have be a number of matter that we 've raise with him where he have n't take the advice of the key industry body and we be concern that our batting average be not particularly good at the moment and we seem to be get some excuse back at the moment , '' he say . 
But in an unprecedented attack on a peak commodity council , Mr McGauran have accuse the Grains Council of act dishonourably and not work in the best interest of grower . 
Mr McGauran say the council have also deliberately leak confidential ministerial document and spread misinformation . 
`` I believe this be an ill-considered and ill-timed intervention by the Grains Council which be more puzzling than anything else , '' he say . 

Saltbush shrubland plan anger grazier 
Graziers in western New South Wales be furious about a proposal to list old man saltbush shrubland a endanger . 
The New South Wales Scientific Committee have find saltbush shrubland have fall by 70 per cent since European settlement and the rest be at risk of extinction from clear and grazing . 
But Graham Morphett , who have a property north-west of Hay , say the plant be thrive in the western division due to good management and rabbit control . 
`` I 've get 170,000 acre out here and I have ten of thousand of acre of old man saltbush with up to 5,000 acre stand , '' he say . 

Calls to scrap WET tax 
The Western Australian wine industry want the Wine Equalisation Tax ( WET ) abolish despite a big Budget boost . 
The Federal Government have increase tax rebate to small wine producer by $ 210,000 . 
They be available to producer with up to $ 1.7 million in sale . 
But Ron Fraser from the Margaret River Wine Association say it be band-aid therapy , which be lull small producer into a false sense of security 
`` It 's avoid the issue that the WET tax be an impost on the cost of wine and should be scrap altogether , '' he say . 
`` The only way that you can get the benefit from this extra threshold be to increase your sale and in today 's market to increase your sale be an increasingly difficult job . 

Grape grower mull mothball vine 
Grape grower in South Australia 's Riverland be consider mothball their vine , hop to ride out the industry 's oversupply . 
Many local grower could not sell their fruit this year , with winery suspend or not renew contract . 
With no relief in sight , grower say they could prune heavily or use chemical to hinder fruit growth to hibernate vine instead of have to pull them out . 
Berri grape grower Bill Ruediger say he will have to make a decision very soon . 

ACCC to investigate Sunbeam price-setting 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) will investigate whether dried fruit processor Sunbeam Foods breach the Trade Practices Act in set low price this season . 
ACCC Commissioner John Martin hold talk with grower in Mildura in north-west Victoria this week after the Victorian Farmers Federation lodge complaint of unconscionable conduct by the industry 's major processor . 
Growers claim Sunbeam be take advantage of it virtual monopoly position in the industry , and have set price at a 20-year low . 

Rural property value tip to even out 
Rural property value have double and in some case triple in just four year , outperform most other capital investment . 
But they could be about to come off the boil . 
Wayne Carlson from the National Australia Bank say price be expect to even out in the next 12 to 24 month . 
`` We probably do n't really expect price to come down , '' he say . 
`` We expect more a plateau effect . 
`` These may be some discount in the low , standard and marginal type lends . And there 's no doubt the trend of this off-farm investment super fund , manage investment scheme et cetera will continue to tip money into this market . 

Plantation tax reform plan unveil 
The Federal Government have unveil propose change to tax incentive for investor in the plantation timber sector . 
The incentive , which currently provide 100 per cent tax deduction for manage investment scheme , have be under review for the past 12 month . 
Dr Judy Clark , from the Australian National University ( ANU ) , say the draft change which will affect investor interest . 
`` Putting a cap on the immediate volume of money that can be tax deduct and you also add on that reduction in top marginal tax rat from 47 to 45 per cent , both of these work to down play the attractiveness of these scheme for investor , '' she say . 
`` We do n't need to plant more softwood to meet Australia 's entire timber need . 

Marine park boundary 'botched ' 
The Marine Conservation Society ( MCS ) want change to the way boundary be establish for national marine park . 
It say the new park between Tasmania and the mainland be a botched job , which fail to protect marine biodiversity . 
The park 's boundary be redrawn after concern from the fishing sector . 
The MCS 's Craig Bohm say the revised boundary have miss biodiverisity hotspot , and the Federal Government must review the process . 

G-G head up Birdsville Track 
Governor-General Michael Jeffrey have embark on a journey up the Birdsville Track to attract attention to life in the outback . 
Accompanied by his valet , doctor , physio and other escort , the Governor-General will spend five day meet people from remote community a part of the Year of the Outback . 
Major-General Jeffrey hop the trip will inspire others . 
`` I hope to expose the character the lifestyle , some of the difficulty of course , '' he say . 

Leaping croc shock scientist 
An airborne four-metre crocodile have make scientist ' heart skip a beat during research on the Ord River in the far north of Western Australia . 
Scientists have be use an electrical current to temporarily stun fish , so a to study them . 
But they accidentally send a shock wave through a nearby crocodile . 
Scott Goodson from the Department of Environment say the jumping croc give everyone a start . 
`` He breach the water , he get a metre out of the water , that 's a big croc ! '' he say . 
`` He get a fairly good tickle up , I would have think ! '' 
Mr Goodson say the reptile be probably just a bit stunned after the accidental shock treatment . 
`` He 's probably take off and just kick back behind another rock , I do n't think he will come too close to that boat again , '' he say . 

AWB hop to salvage India wheat deal 
Wheat exporter AWB hop last minute talk can salvage a half million tonne wheat deal with India . 
Indian authority have raise new concern about quality issue , this time with wheat which have not even leave Australia . 
The first consignment of wheat under the deal be hold up last week while test for pesticide contamination be carry out . Those test clear the wheat for unload . 
National pool manager with AWB David Johnson say the company be try to limit the damage to grower , with the national pool bear any cost of delay . 
`` We be look to mitigate an exposure , cost to grower , by potentially divert some of those vessel to other market , '' he say . 

Cole inquiry hears from ex-UN custom official 
The Cole inquiry have reconvene in Sydney to hear the evidence of former UN custom official Felicity Johnston . 
Ms Johnston have tell the inquiry she inform Australian Government official in both Washington and New York about inland transport fee be pay by AWB to the Iraqi Government . 
Ms Johnston appear at the inquiry via video link from Washington . 
She tell senior counsel assist John Agius she mention the inland transportation payment in discussion with DFAT 's delegate at the Australian mission to the UN , Bronte Moules and with AusTrade Commissioner Alistair Nicholas . 
Ms Johnston say she raise the issue in January and March 2000 follow a complaint from the Canadians . 

Govt accuse of use Budget to shore up Nationals ' vote 
The Federal Government have attack Labor 's plan for a national high-speed broadband network , accuse it of allocate rural telecommunication money to the city . 
But Labor leader Kim Beazley have use his Budget reply speech to criticise the Government for base road spend on shore up National party vote . 
Mr Beazley say Labor would provide free Tafe for traditional trade , more childcare place across Australia and put a stop to import foreign apprentice . 
He also criticise the Government for fail to invest in climate change research , do more to tackle water shortage and lay down plan to provide all business and household with fast Internet . 
`` To you and me this mean a broadband system 25 time faster than the sort of speed available in Australia today , '' he say . 
But the Government say Labor plan to spend $ 2 billion earmark for rural telecommunication to fund broadband in the city . 
And National Farmers Federation president Peter Corish say money Labor want for it plan be already be spend . 

Heemskirk wind farm mothball 
The Federal Government 's decision not to increase renewable energy target be be blame for a decision to mothball Tasmania 's $ 300 million Heemskirk wind farm . 
Tasmanian energy company Roaring 40 say it remain committed to exist Australian project but will be wind back work on new development . 
Managing director Mark Kelleher say there be no incentive for electricity retailer to buy wind energy , make Heemskirk unviable . 

Controls on explosive chemical sale to be tighten 
The Queensland Government be further tighten control on the sale of explosive chemical after the arrest of a Brisbane man find to be in the possession of 53 kilogram of explosive . 
The Government will meet with farm and mining group in Brisbane today to discuss the implication of the new control . 
Police allege a Brisbane high school teacher illegally purchase the explosive Powergel from chemical company Orica under the pretense of use it for movie stunt . 
The 40-year-old be expect to be the first Queenslander charge with terrorism . 
The Queensland Government have announce seller of chemical , like ammonium nitrate use by farmer , will need to report fortnightly to the Government on who they sell explosive material to and even call the Department of Natural Resources to double-check the detail of new and exist customer . 

NQ wildlife to benefit from grape glut 
Grape grower be have trouble get rid of their fruit this year , but one solution have be to send it to north Queensland , to fee hungry wildlife . 
With habitat destroy by cyclone Larry , surplus grape from Lopresti Wines in South Australia be be feed to bird like the Southern Cassowary . 
Scott Sullivan from Queensland 's Parks and Wildlife Service , say they be happy to get them . 

Cape call for cyclone assistance 
Graziers , tourism operator and Indigenous community on Cape York be call for immediate financial help from the Federal Government in the wake of Cyclone Monica . 
The cyclone bring heavy rain and severe flooding to the cape , and grazier say there be widespread damage to roads , and huge stock loss . 
The Cape community want to know why they can not access the same assistance offer to victim of cyclone Larry . 
Cape grazier Darcy Burns say they be desperate . 
`` It look like Larry 's get everything , '' he say . 
`` We 're not hear one word on Monica , I think people have forget how much damage that 's do up there . 
`` We understand fully about Innisfail 's do and they need all the support they can get , we 're not knock that at all , but they 've also get to look at u as well , there 's people up there at the moment , we 've lose our income for the next 12 month because we ca n't get in there , and the season 's so short now . '' 

WA farmer unhappy with state Budget 
The Western Australian Government have hand down it budget , but it have fail to excite the agricultural sector . 
The Government have confirm a surplus of $ 2 billion for this financial year , with the windfall to pay for the Perth to Mandurah railway . 
Trevor de Landgraft from the WA Farmers Federation say rural people have be ignore . 

Rural job hard to fill : survey 
A joint federal and Victorian government survey suggest one third of rural employer can not fill job vacancy . 
The survey of the Wimmera Grampians region be be roll out across the state , with the result to be compare with other state and territory . 
Penny Ireland , from the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations , say professional and trade position in health , finance and construction be the hard to fill . 
`` There be a lot of health relate professional occupation so general practitioner , registered nurse , occupational therapist , physiotherapist . There be also a number of trade position , in particular motor mechanic , which we see across the country and electrician , '' she say . 
Meanwhile , grey nomad be be use to temporarily fill some of the shortage in central Australia . 
Under the Outback Links program , retired traveller be help to fix the plumbing , or mind child on outback station , in exchange for a taste of remote living . 
Gold Coast retiree Bobbie Perkins be the first volunteer to be place , and say help with the housework on New Crown Station , south of Alice Springs , be actually a good way to learn about rural Australia . 

Biosecurity plan to protect northern WA 
Australia 's first regional biosecurity plan be be launch today in Kununurra , in the far north of Western Australia . 
Ord Guard will educate group from local Indigenous community to traveller , on plant disease threat and prevention in the Ord River region . 
With up to 120,000 visitor pass through each year , Dr Simon Mckirdie from the CRC for Plant Biosecurity , say educate tourist be a key part of the plan , 

Seafood lover to feel the pinch on crab price 
Commercial crab fisherman in the Northern Territory say they be pot just over half the number of crab they use to , because of new catch size rule . 
The minimum catch size of both female and male mud crab have increase by a centimetre , but angler say there be not many around at this time of year . 
Melbourne seafood wholesaler , Spencer Wilkinson say diner could be wrestle big crab on the dinner plate in the future , if they can afford them . 
`` It will just price itself out of the market and what happen be , when it get to exorbitant level , the Sydney market soak up basically all the crab , '' he say . 

Govt tight-lipped on Snowy Hydro sale 
The New South Wales Government have confirm an international offer for Snowy Hydro , but say it need to keep tight-lipped on the detail . 
State Finance Minister John Della Bosca say yesterday any discussion of detail before the release of the prospectus would incur the risk of litigation . 
But Lester Wheatly , chair of the Murray Valley Community Action group , say it be just an excuse to keep the public in the dark . 
`` The Government attitude be that `` look here , we 're involve in very sensitive international negotiation at the moment and ca n't tell you anything '' . At the end of the day , that 's just not good enough . 

Two in run for peak farm job 
Australia 's top job in agripolitics will be contest for the first time in four year , with Peter Corish set to step down a president of the National Farmers Federation . 
NFF trade representative Allan Burgess and former Meat and Livestock Australia chairman David Crombie have nominate for the key post . 
Mr Corish will not comment on speculation he will contest the seat of Gwydir in the next election , which will be vacate by former deputy prime minister John Anderson . 
He say water reform and more money for rural telecommunication have be major achievement during his presidency . 
`` The National Water Initiative I think be a key opportunity that we 've lock in while I 've be NFF president , '' he say . 
`` We 've make significant progress in the area of workplace reform , we have lock in significant funding for rural Australia in regard to telecommunication , and I 've enjoy my time immensely over the four year . '' 
Board election will be hold at the next NFF annual general meeting on June 14 and 15 . 
Meanwhile former executive director of the NFF , Rick Farley have die . 
Mr Farley be make a slow recovery after a stroke , but die from injury he receive after fall from a wheelchair outside Sydney 's Balmain Hospital at the weekend . 
In the mid-70s Rick Farley become the first executive director of the newly form Cattlemen 's Union ( CU ) in Queensland . 
With a background in the art , time spend in the hippy capital of Nimbin and a job with Labor health spokesperson Doug Everingham , Mr Farley be not an obvous choice to head up the organisation , most of whose member be staunch National Party supporter . 
But from his day in Rockhampton with the CU , the farmer ' rally in 1985 in Canberra , the foundation of the Landcare moverment in the late 80 and then the native title debate in the 90 Rick Farley be a smart political operator , In Canberra he cut a distinctive character in moleskin , boot and Akubra and a Cattlemen 's first preisident Sir Grahman McCamley say he be an extremely effective lobbyist on behalf of the farm sector . 

Vaile leave door ajar for Katter 
Leader of the National Party Mark Vaile say he would push for another ministry position if Queensland Independent Bob Katter rejoin the party . 
There be speculation Mr Katter will seek membership of the Nationals , after contest the last election in his seat of Kennedy a an Independent . 
The Nationals lose a ministry position earlier this year when Senator Julian McGauran cross to the Liberal Party . 
Mr Vaile have tell the Nine Network he be keep an open mind about Mr Katter . 
`` Politics be about number and if someone want to commit to the ideal and the philosophy of our particular party or our government then they 're most welcome , so I 'd keep an open mind on that particular matter , '' he say . 

Opponents speak out against Qld dam proposal 
More than 3,000 people attend a weekend protest rally in the Queensland city of Gympie , to fight the propose Mary River Dam . 
The State Government be plan a 660,000 megalitre dam at Traveston Crossing , south of the city , to supply the water need of Brisbane and the Sunshine Coast . 
The Government make it first property acquisition late last week , only day after announce a $ 50 million package to begin the buyback process . 
Local mayor , a federal member of parliament , conservationist and landholder address the public meeting . 
Farmer Ian Allen say a fighting fund have also be establish . 
`` My farm be affect a much anyone else 's , '' he say . 
`` I 've spend a long time get where I want to get , I just felt like I 'm there , and this announcement of a dam have put me back where I start 20-30 year ago . 

Lamb production spring to new high 
Australian lamb production hit a new record during the first three month of 2006 , despite challenge seasonal condition . 
Meat and Livestock Australia say the average jump of 8 per cent come a a surprise , with the big gain in Victoria and WA , where there be a continue shift away from grow wool . 
Despite the grow stock number , export be up and price remain just 10 per cent under the all-time high . 
Grazier Peter Small from Victoria 's western district , say it break his heart to turn away from wool , but there be a lot more money to be make out of lamb . 
`` Well it be what we have do but we be reluctant to do it , '' he say . 

Farmers log on to livestock sale 
Rising fuel cost and more user-friendly technology be say to be drive a jump in the number of farmer sell livestock over the Internet . 
Elders sell around 3 per cent of Australia 's sheep , lamb and cattle in online auction . 
Jack Gleeson from Elders say it be save farmer the cost of truck livestock to saleyards . 
`` Normally there would be freight involve from the point of origin , the vendor 's property to the saleyard , '' he say . 

Big drop in US wheat production tip 
The US Agriculture Department be tip an 11 per cent drop in wheat production there over the next 12 month . 
The late forecast be for a total harvest in 2006-07 of $ 1.8 billion bushel . 
USDA World Agriculture Outlook Board Chairman Gerald Bange blame chronic drought and tough competition from Australia and Canada for low export . 
`` We 're look at export , begin June 1 at about 900 million bushel , which would be about 100 million bushel low than we will export in the 2005/06 year , which be currently estimate at an even 1 billion bushel , '' he say . 
Mr Bange say part of the reason be a strong US price forecast in '06/'07 due to lower production and tighter end stock . 
Wheat price look set to improve on the back of the USDA report , which have also reveal a substantial increase in corn export . 
There be also high domestic demand in the US for corn to make ethanol . 
Natham Omodei from commodity trader Plum Grove , say that should make wheat more attractive a feed for livestock and drive up price . 
`` They increase use for ethanol production , which really cut their stock forecast for 2006-2007 , '' he say . 

NSW Govt announce department restructure 
The New South Wales Government have announce a major restructure of the Department of Natural Resources in a bid to save $ 16 million a year . 
Fifty employee be be move from Sydney to Orange , and voluntary redundancy be be offer for non-frontline staff . 
Farmers be also worry about a decision to scrap regional director position . 
But Jeff Angel from the Total Environment Centre say the change will speed up reform . 
`` You 're not go to get the unbelievable and untrustworthy level of inconsistent decision-making that we have under the previous system , '' he say . 
`` You can go way too far in have autonomous region . 

Fly slow weed threat in Timor 
A natural predator be slow the spread of the world 's bad weed across our northern neighbour . 
The stem gall fly have be introduce across East and West Timor , to control siam weed . 
Researcher Rob Williams say the Australian-funded project also reduce the chance of the weed gain a foothold in the Northern Territory . 
`` Siam weed can be see in 90 per cent of the countryside in East Timor , and it cover the grassland , '' he say . 
The ( stem ) gall fly be re-producing here . They release 200 gall fly here last year . The gall fly survive through the dry season and be grow here now . 

Tassie farmer recognise by vege industry 
A Tasmanian potato farmer have be name the Young Vegetable Grower of the Year , for his leadership during the Fair Dinkum Food campaign . 
Matthew Ryan from northern Tasmania be honour at the national conference of AusVeg in Brisbane at the weekend . 
He say the campaign raise the profile of the vegetable industry , but there be still more to be do . 

Royal Flying Doctor Service turn 78 
The Royal Flying Doctor Service ( RFDS ) be celebrate it 78th birthday today . 
Reverend John Flynn establish the Flying Doctors at Cloncurry in north-west Queensland back in 1928 . 
Senior flight nurse at the Mount Isa base , Mary Noon , say the RFDS have come a long way since then , but still play an essential role in remote area . 
`` One day you can be deliver a baby , and the next day you 're help somebody with chest pain , so it 's a huge variation , '' she say . 
`` You get to meet such a variety of people , you get to see new place , different place every day a oppose to the ward . 

Mining loss a correction , say analyst 
The mining sector have have a rough couple of day , with metal price fall sharply on the commodity market overnight . 
Copper be the big loser , at one stage fall 9 per cent , with gold down 4 per cent , and silver 5 per cent . 
But analyst say it be not a global market meltdown , merely a long overdue correction on the mineral boom . 
Malcolm Condie , from AWB Landmark , say the mining sector have take the big battering , and agricultural commodity should escape relatively unscathed . 
He say the fundamental for wool price be unchanged , the poor US crop have strengthen wheat price and demand from Asia and India for other agricultural commodity will continue to strengthen . 
`` I do n't see any further risk or downside risk for wool at this stage , '' he say . 
`` We might see the market just tread water for a little while now . 
`` Obviously grain , wheat be on a bit of an upward spiral and I mean generally there be no correlation between those and the other mineral commodity that we export . But obviously as far a food stuff go people have to eat and I think we be go to see a lot more go into Asia . '' 
Rising inflation fear in the US have largely contribute to the weak commodity price . 
The All Ordinaries Index have fall 93 point at the close of trade yesterday , with bulk-commodity company like BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto the hard hit . 
Chris Monroe of Hartleys say it be the correction the market , `` have to have . '' 
`` Another cliche , the market be , `` price to perfection '' I think , '' he say . 

NFF contender seek to build trust between city and bush 
The man widely tip to be the next head of the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say his main priority will be rebuild trust between urban and country area . 
The former chairman of Meat and Livestock Australia David Crombie , have be ask to run for the NFF presidency by two state farming group . 
He say farmer need the support of city people to defeat extreme animal right group , which he say be a key issue for Australian agriculture . 
Mr Crombie , who live in Brisbane , say he be not a typical farmer , but do not think that stop him be an effective leader of Australia 's most powerful rural lobby group . 
`` No , I 'm certainly not an average farmer because I currently live in Brisbane , but certainly my interest be in agriculture and all of my professional life I 've be involve in agriculture . I believe I have something to offer . I believe I can make a difference , '' he say . 

NSW farmer chief quits 
The chief executive of the New South Wales Farmers Association have resign , effective immediately . 
Dr Ray Johnson have complete only two year of his three year contract , but the association will not say whether he will be pay out . 
President Jock Laurie reject suggestion the former chief executive be push by a divide board . 

Cool reaction to Qld water plan 
The Queensland Government be look to buy two large cotton property in the state 's south-west to return water to the Murray-Darling Basin . 
The buy-up be expect to cost up to $ 60 million and deliver 58,000 megalitres of water a year over the New South Wales border . 
The Federal Government reject a similar proposal four year ago to purchase the huge Cubbie Station . 
Grazier Pot Peterson be among New South Wales landholder who have be critical of the amount of water Queensland irrigators take out of the Condamine-Balonne river system , and say this plan will not be very beneficial . 
`` I 'm not say that they should n't purchase it , but I just think it would be far more beneficial if they purchase something upstream that would have a big affect on u , because really the water virtually stop at Cubbie , '' he say . 
`` As we saw in the 2004 flood they do have a big flood at St George but we do n't get any of it here . '' 
The plan will be out to the Murray-Darling Ministerial Council meeting in Melbourne on Friday . 
Meanwhile the Cubbie Group , which run Cubbie Station , have slam call by the New South Wales Government for it water allocation to be reduce . 
The station can store 500,000 megalitres of water for it cotton-growing operation , and grazier south of the border complain they be be starve of crucial flood water flow . 
But joint manage director John Grabbe say New South Wales should fix up evaporation loss in the Menindee Lakes in the state 's west , before attack Queensland 's science-based water allocation . 
`` Oh get your own house in order , but let 's be fair dinkum , not just throw stone at each other , but let 's be fair dinkum , '' he say . 
`` I mean , water be too valuable a resource to be go up into the air in shallow storage system . Now we do n't do it at Cubbie , and I implore the southern state to seriously look at their storage system . 
Federal Agricultural Minister Peter McGauran say the CSIRO be scare-mongering , with a report call for big environmental flow for the Murray River . 
An extra 500 gigalitres have already be commit to the Murray , but the scientific body say up to five time more will be need to restore the river 's health . 
Despite criticise that find , Mr McGauran acknowledge progress have be slow on the Living Murray Initiative , and say the report will be consider . 

Eldest child not always the best farm manager : research 
New research have show the tradition of pass the farm onto the eldest child could be cost the sector it best talent . 
Psychologist and social researcher , Dr Ian Ploughman , say by nature , old child be more conservative . 
He say young sibling tend to be the most innovative and creative , but do not have the opportunity to contribute . 
`` The young brother and sister commonly have less interest in stay on the farm , and be more creative and more mobile , '' he say . 

Debt an obstacle to wool merger 
The wool industry remain committed to a merger between it promotion and research arm , despite a dispute over a $ 27 million debt . 
Australian Wool Services , which own the Woolmark brand , be seek financial help from the Federal Government to pay the debt , without success . 
The owe money relate to a pension fund for former UK-based employee . 
Chairman of Australian Wool Innovation Ian McLachlan say he understand the Government 's position , but there will not be a merger between the two company until the bill be pay . 
`` I 've be in government and I think when a government have a position , it have to repeat that position , and it will hold that position until somebody come up with a really bright idea a to how we can solve it , '' he say . 

AWB search for new market for stranded wheat 
Wheat exporter AWB say it be try to find another market for a shipment of wheat strand at Geraldton in Western Australia , due to a quarantine dispute with India . 
The ship have be dock for a month , while talk have be under way to resolve the problem . 
The ship be expect to be load today . 
Paul Ryan , AWB 's industry relation manager in WA , say two other vessel have be unload successfully in India , but he can not say why this vessel have be in port for so long . 
`` It be more to do with a range of quarantine restriction , in term of bring wheat into India , '' he say . 

WA exercise to test response to foot and mouth outbreak 
An operation dub `` Exercise Wild West '' start today in Western Australia to test the ability of authority to fight a foot and mouth disease outbreak . 
The simulated exercise will run until Friday , and involve 180 people from the Department of Agriculture and Food and other agency . 
Director of Animal Biosecurity Ashley Mercy say an outbreak in Australia similar to the 2001 United Kingdom outbreak would cost the Australian economy about $ 15 billion . 

Northern grower put price cap on banana 
It be pretty rare for producer to knock back money , but with soar price a small group of north Queensland banana grower have decide to put a price cap on their fruit . 
Pacific Coast Eco Bananas , which win an award last night for farm in an environmentally sustainable manner , say sustainability need to apply to all sector of the business . 
In the wake of cyclone Larry some banana have sell for more than $ 100 a carton , but the company 's Dianne Sciacca say that level can not be sustain , with the price cap set at $ 70 . 
`` I think if you 're serious about sustainability , you have to live within a sustainable business environment as well and we ask a premium price for our product of which that be support by the supermarket and our customer in the market place , '' she say . 

Scientists consider climate change challenge 
Scientists be meet in Sydney today to tackle climate change . 
The scientist from CSIRO , the Bureau of Meteorology and the Greenhouse Office be debate strategy they say need to be implement to adapt to the change climate . 
Principal scientist with the CSIRO , Kevin Hennessy say it be likely farmer will be force to make big change . 
`` We would need to look at improve water use efficiency , water recycling , so reduce the amount of evaporation from some of our irrigation channel , and smart way of farming , for example direct drilling of seed , retain the stubble to reduce both erosion and water usage , and I guess some challenge for the type of crop that we use , '' he say . 

Land use bid concern fish industry 
Members of the aquaculture and fishing industry on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula say they be worried about the possible impact of Aboriginal claim over the region 's coastal water . 
Negotiations have begin for Indigenous Land Use Agreements ( ILUA ) , cover coastal land and water from Cowell to Venus Bay . 
Michael Whillas from the Seafood Council of South Australia say because the process be new , there be uncertainty about the future legal status of aquaculture lease and fishing right . 
`` The problem that we face be that under the Native Title Act , a native title claim be extinguish when there be an exist licence or lease , '' he say . 
`` Under the ILUA , that do n't necessarily happen . At this stage , there be some grey area . 

Group oppose give national park back to traditional owner 
A campaign to prevent 17 national park be return to their traditional owner have step up in the Northern Territory . 
The Territory Government intend to hand over the land title to traditional Indigenous owner , and then lease it back for 99 year under a joint management plan . 
With plan to circulate petition , Save Our Parks campaigner Francoises Builder say there be plenty of opposition to any single group own park . 
`` Parks be free , they be for everybody , so why hand it to a group of people and then lease it back with taxpayer ' money for a million dollar a year ? '' 
`` And it be true when you be give away for example Bondi Beach it 's exactly the same thing , we have nothing else to go to . '' 

Infrastructure cost hold up Ord irrigation scheme 
Infrastructure cost be the late hurdle for expansion plan in the nation 's big irrigation scheme , in Western Australia 's far north . 
Native title settlement last October raise hope of a quick go-ahead for Ord Stage 2 but six month on there be still no movement . 
The scheme would more than double the exist irrigation area in WA , with more than 30,000 hectare earmark for development . 
WA 's Minister for Agriculture and Food Kim Chance say a decision be imminent , but it be a matter of decide how much should be pay for road , power and irrigation work . 

WA to reap reward after Brazil iron deal 
Western Australia 's economy look set for further growth , with Brazil , the world 's large iron ore producer , negotiate a better-than-expected price hike . 
The market have tip a rise in the iron ore price of between 10 and 15 per cent , instead , it will go up 19 per cent . 
The deal between Brazil 's CVRD and German steel-maker ThyssenKrupp set the scene for increase iron price for WA miner . 
ANZ Bank commodity analyst Andrew Harrington say it also mean more royalty for government coffer . 
`` The high the price the high the volume , will inevitably lead to high tax revenue for the Government , '' he say . 
`` Earlier in the year ABARE be forecast that iron ore would become the high exporter earner for the country . 

Tasmania set for rail upgrade 
Toll 's successful takeover of transport company Patrick have pave the way for a multi-million dollar rail upgrade in Tasmania . 
Pacific National , which be jointly own by the two company , threaten to stop cart container freight by rail last year , unless state and federal government help to improve infrastructure . 
After month of stalled negotiation , Pacific National have now agree to invest $ 38 million in new roll stock , while the government will provide $ 118 million for infrastructure . 
Tasmanian Minister for Infrastructure Jim Cox hop industry will also support a good rail service . 

Draft dairy report recommend support for GM crop 
The dairy industry have be embarrass by the leaking of a draft report that recommend it join other agricultural industry in support genetically modify ( GM ) crop . 
Until now state government have have the backing of the dairy industry in ban commercial GM crop . 
The draft report be commission by the Australian Dairy Industry Council ( ADIC ) and be not due to be release until much later this year . 
Policy director with Australian Dairy Farmers , Robert Poole , say the current policy be write seven year ago , and be due for review . 
`` Had we not have it happen where it 's now become public we would have certainly go to the point where we would have consult widely especially with dairy farmer and with dairy company , although they 're part of the ADIC process and obviously ultimately government a well , '' he say . 
Mr Poole say it be a draft report and not industry policy . 
Meanwhile a leading plant breeder say the dairy industry would save million of dollar , if it embrace GM crop . 
Viruses in pasture such a white clover cost the industry $ 110 million a year , but a virus-resistant clover could be on-farm by 2009 . 
Research director Professor German Spangenberg say that be just one reason for introduce genetically modify technology . 

Bush see no need for US inquiry into AWB 
President George W Bush do not appear to think there will be need for a US inquiry into AWB , despite pressure from domestic farm group and some senator . 
The President have express confident in the Australian Government 's ability to investigate the kickback scandal , during a visit to Washington by Prime Minister John Howard . 
Mr Bush praise Howard for his free trade effort , and dodge question about the AWB , say Australia be conduct it own investigation into the UN oil-for-food scandal , and Mr Bush look forward to see the result . 
At the US Capitol , Mr Howard tell Senate leader he understand the difficulty surround the Australia-US free trade agreement . 
`` I know that thing of that kind always create some difficult domestic judgment and consideration ... and , I 'm very grateful that it receive such strong support , '' he say . 

Court rule against AWB over 'apology ' document 
A Federal Court judge have rule against wheat exporter AWB , in it fight to keep a so-called apology document confidential . 
The document be prepare on the advice of US-based public relation consultant , and be mistakenly include in evidence AWB tender to the Cole inquiry . 
Justice Neil Young take just 10 minute to rule , AWB have no claim for legal professional privilege , and reject the company 's effort to keep the document confidential . 
Justice Young also find Commissioner Cole have every right to rule on the legal status of the document , a point dispute by AWB . 

Burgess make case to lead NFF 
No surprise and no big policy change be how prospective National Farmers ' Federation ( NFF ) bos Allan Burgess , say he will lead the organisation if elect president . 
Mr Burgess , NFF 's trade representative , will contest next month 's leadership ballot against former Meat and Livestock Australia bos David Crombie . 
The Victorian say make sure farmer get a fair price for their produce and maintain a good relationship with urban Australia be key issue . 
He say bring Western Australia and South Australia back into the NFF fold be also high on his list of priority . 
`` At the very high priority for Allan Burgess in any organisation he 's ever be a part of have be about get a collective view , '' he say . 
`` In my experience farm organisation only work well when you can come to one consensus . 

Inquiry release AWB apology 
The head of the Oil for Food Inquiry , Commissioner Terence Cole have just release the apology document , prepare between AWB , company lawyer and US public relation consultant Dr Peter Sandman . 
The document , draft by former MD Andrew Lindberg , state that AWB accept in pay money for inland transportation and after sale service , it pay money to the Iraq government in contravention of the UN sanction . 
The document also state that although there be warn sign , AWB do not challenge the payment and for this they be truly sorry , and deeply regret any damage this may have cause to Australia 's trading reputation , the Australian Government or the United Nations . 
The statement admit they fail to consider the implication of UN sanction , and should have have their own internal system of check and balance to stop any abuse of the oil for food program . 
It conclude there be no excuse for what happen , that the company simply should have do good , and that Mr Lindberg be deeply sorry that it do not . 
AWB have decide not to release the document , but it be mistakenly tender to the Cole Inquiry , along with other AWB evidence . 

Live trade to Egypt may re-start soon 
The Federal Government have confirm it be work on a plan which could see the livestock export trade to Egypt reopen in a matter of week . 
The trade to Egypt be ban in February when the 60 Minutes program air footage show animal be treat outside industry standard . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say his investigation prove the cattle be not Australian , but he shut the trade because the humane handling of Australian animal could not be guarantee . 
The Minister now say industry be form a plan which will animal treat well . 
`` There may well be some Australian stockman or vet or locally employ and trusted staff , '' he say . 
But RSPCA National President Hugh Wirth say more than increase supervision be need . 
`` You can do all the supervise you like , it 's not go to change the fact that the abattoir worker have a great deal of difficulty deal with Australian cattle . '' 
Around 12,000 head of cattle be export to Egypt last year worth around $ 10 million . 
The cattle industry say the finding of a new report add weight to the argument to resume the live cattle trade with Egypt , with appropriate monitoring . 
Cameron Hall from Livecorp say the report have find Australia have the high animal welfare standard in the world . 
`` There need to be appropriate system and appropriate monitoring to ensure some of the reason that the trade be halt and suspend in the first place , can not continue and particularly we can guarantee level of assurance that the animal that we market into those country be process and handle with a level of care that we would expect , '' he say . 
The report be commission by Livecorp and Meat and Livestock Australia . 
The first shipment of live cattle out of the far north Queensland city of Townsville in three year be due to leave at the weekend . 

Boom time for feedlot 
Strong export demand and the ongoing drought have push the feedlot sector to record height . 
Australia now have just under 900,000 head of cattle on feed , with Queensland and Western Australia record the big jump . 
But Malcolm Foster from the Lotfeeders Association have sound a note of caution . 
He say the United States could be back supply beef into Japan and Korea as early a next month , which will provide stiff competition for our grain-fed product . 
`` It be very good news , but this situation 's be go on now for two year , '' he say . 

Report recommend GM grass for dairy cow 
The South Australian Dairyfarmers Association say it will support the introduction of genetically modify ( GM ) pasture grass if consumer accept them . 
A leaked draft report for the Australian Dairy Industry Council recommend introduce GM grass for dairy cow , after research point to massive productivity gain from the new technology . 
SA association president , David Basham , say the industry need to do more investigation . 
`` We need to keep that research go , we need to make sure that if consumer be ready to move on , we be there ready to adopt , '' he say . 
`` If the market be not willing to accept GM product then we a an industry ca n't accept it and that may be the way it go . '' 
And there be deeply divided view on GM pasture in Victoria . 

Concerns over inferior wool in bale 
Concerns have be raise about the grow number of wool bale that have inferior quality wool deliberately hide in them . 
The Australian Wool Exchange ( AWEX ) say buyer be lose confidence in the quality of Australian wool because of falsely present bale and a rise in contaminated and unprepared fleece . 
AWEX woolclasser registrar Greg Sawyer say the market slump have see grower try to cut corner , but it be turn buyer off altogether . 
`` We know of mill around the world that have notify AWEX of wool that for argument sake may have 10-bale line of fleece wool , eight bale be well prepared and the last two bale may be top up with inferior wool which have n't be , '' he say . 

NLIS frustration in Tas 
Tasmanian cattle producer be frustrate by the state 's roll-out of the National Livestock Identification System . 
They be still require to use tailtags , as well a the new electronic ear tag , even though the rest of Australia will be tail-tag free from July 1 . 
Tasmanian NLIS coordinator John Cameron say they need to be able to guarantee trace-back to the last property of origin before tail tag can be remove . 
`` At the moment there be still a lot of cattle with NLIS tag in their ear that be not register to the correct property on the database , '' he say . 
`` So if they 're send to a saleyard or abattoir the database do n't have the correct information about where they be . 

Govt ass drought in NSW 
The ongoing impact of the drought be be assess first hand in New South Wales by Federal Government assessor . 
The National Rural Advisory Council have embark on an extensive tour of area come to the end of exceptional circumstance drought relief . 
Sheep specialist Doug Alcock have help the council to understand the severity of the drought from Canberra south to the Alpine region . 
`` Water be the big issue in term of the effort and money that 's be put into infrastructure in term of tank and new bore and reticulation system , '' he say . 
`` People run polypipe anything up to a couple of kilometre just to get water into paddock , it 's very expensive and heartbreaking in country that nobody have any living memory of ever go dry some of the spring . '' 
Coastal farmer in the region be also be hit hard by drought . 

Sick sheep seek out healthy food : research 
Scientists have know for a long time that sheep seek out food to gather the nutrient they need , but new research suggest they can choose food to cure illness . 
CSIRO Livestock Industries in Western Australia believe sick sheep will search for plant that make them good . 
It be conduct a trial in WA 's wheatbelt to work out which plant be eat by sheep to improve their health and production level . 
Senior research scientist Dr Dean Revell say down the track , farmer might even be able to incorporate `` medicinal paddock '' into their farm management . 
`` Maybe they have to have a continual exposure to these , so they have to be incorporate into the grazing base , the feed base , '' he say . 
`` The former option be more attractive , where we can set up and manage a separate paddock and take them there when need . 

WA impose ban to stop virus 
Western Australia have ban any plant material from the east which could host the yellow leaf curl virus . 
The virus be find in tomato crop near Brisbane and Bundaberg last month . 

Fiji look to dairying 
Fiji be hop for a boom in it dairy industry , a it dominant sugar industry face a downturn . 
A delegation have be tour dairy farm in Victoria this week to investigate alternative way of farming . 
Until recently the European Union have give preferential market treatment to Fijian sugar , but with an EU restructure , it be become hard for sugar grower to stay in business . 
Economist with the Fijian Ministry of Agriculture Waisiici Gonemaituba think favourable rainfall condition will be an advantage for dairy farmer . 
`` We get rain nearly every two day which be good for pasture production and the dairy industry a a whole , '' he say . 

Landcare to honour Farley 
The Australian Landcare Council plan to pay tribute to co-founder Rick Farley by an annual award in his honour . 
A former head of the National Farmers Federation , Mr Farley , a also instrumental in establish the Landcare movement . 
He die on Saturday . 
Landcare chairman Bobbie Brazil say the award will honour Mr Farley 's work and vision . 

Wimmera farmer say AWB should have release apology letter sooner 
Wheat grower say AWB could have take the heat of the accusation it have pay kickback to the former Iraqi Government , by publish a letter of apology before the Oil for Food Inquiry . 
The Inquiry yesterday release a document prepare by former AWB manage director Andrew Lindberg in December , which say the company be truly sorry it do not challenge the payment , despite warn sign , and it should have do well . 
Farmers in Victoria 's Wimmera region say by try to block the letter 's release through the Federal Court , AWB have only raise further question about what it be try to hide . 
`` I would have believe that if it have have be presenter prior to the Cole Inquiry it may have defuse quite a lot of the heat and argument within the Cole Inquiry itself , '' one farmer say . 
`` In hindsight AWB should have publish a very similar letter , if not the same letter early on in the piece and the witch-hunt might not have go on to the extent that it have , '' another farmer say . 
A rural public relation consultant agree that the apology document should have be release earlier . 
Mark Paterson from Currie Communications say it would have make a big difference to AWB 's reputation . 
`` Looking at the draft statement of contrition , it 's an excellent letter of apology , '' he say . 
`` Yes it admit guilt , but what it show be that AWB be human , and at no point at any time during this whole process have they demonstrate any humility at all . '' 
Meanwhile , eight wheat exporter , include Cargill , Glencorp and AWB have bid for the late tender to supply 3 million tonne of wheat to India . 
AWB have confirm it will make an offer to supply 1.2 million tonne of the contract , while the other company be believe to have offer for small amount . 

States debate Murray River funding allocation 
There have finally be some progress in effort to establish a national water trading system . 
The eastern state appear to be try to settle their difference over the future of water at a meeting of the Murray Darling Ministerial Council in Melbourne . 
The council be also debate how to carve up an extra $ 500 million in federal funding to improve the environmental health of the Murray River . 
While there be yet to be a national agreement on how water may be buy back by government into the Murray system , the state be make some progress of their own . 
Victoria and NSW have reach an in-principle deal to trade water which may be up and run by the end of the year . 
While the detail of exit fee and other cost be yet to be work out , both state have agree the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission should review any deal to make sure it be fair for all side . 
Victoria and South Australia have already an agreement on water trading prior to today 's meeting . 
Doug Miell from the New South Wales Irrigators Council , say the state have manage to convince Victoria and South Australia of the merit of a system of tagged trading . 
`` We 've get the water that Victoria and South Australia have really get their eye on , so it 's simply a case of he who have the gold make the rule , '' he say . 

Irrigator group oppose Snowy Hydro sale 
Key irrigator group in southern New South Wales have withdraw their support for the sale of the Snowy Hydro electric scheme . 
They be worried about a planned 10 per cent cap on individual shareholding after the company be sell by the federal , New South Wales and Victorian government . 
George Warne from Murray Irrigation say the propose safeguard be not enough to protect the business from an international takeover . 
`` I think one of the really big issue be the fact that Australia 's large single stored water resource - the Snowy Hydro scheme and it operation and the timing of release and the power that be generate from - it be go to leave government ownership and go into private hand , '' he say . 
`` We think they would dissipate that effect by have a maximum cap of 5 per cent or 10 per cent that any one party could own . 

Australia to lead climate change deal negotiation 
Australia will lead negotiation on a new international climate change deal to replace the Kyoto protocol which be due to expire in 2012 . 
The framework , to be co-developed with Germany and South Africa , will apply to almost 200 country . 
Mick Keogh from the Australian Farm Institute say farmer have lead the way in reduce greenhouse emission and should not be far penalise . 
He say federal and state government can not take credit for work largely undertaken by farmer . 
`` There be only one sector of the Australian economy that 's make a very significant contribution to the reduction in the growth of Australia 's greenhouse emission and that be the farm sector , '' he say . 

Seven-day forecast now available to regional area 
Farmers across Australia can now access seven-day forecast from the weather bureau , as well a the traditional four-day advice . 
Week-long forecast have be available to city dweller for some time , but they have now be roll out on a trial basis at 600 weather site around Australia , include regional area . 
Anne Farrell from the Bureau of Meteorology in Brisbane say the forecast have some shortcoming , but will be accurate for a range of factor . 
`` Temperature-wise I think the performance be generally pretty good , '' she say . 
`` Rainfall-wise there 's still a lot of work to be do to try and get high reliability in that a we go further ahead in that seven-day outlook . 
`` But it 's at the point that we think that there 's sufficient skill in that , that it worth put it out there for the public to make use of . '' 
The seven-day forecast will be available free of charge through a website call Australian 

Rio Tinto set new iron ore price benchmark 
Mining giant Rio Tinto have confirm it will receive 19 per cent more this year for iron ore ship from WA , make it the benchmark price for other deal . 
The deal between Japanese steel mill and Rio Tinto closely follow a similar deal between Germany and Brazil . 

Research centre ' economic benefit to be evaluate 
Australia 's Cooperative Research Centres ( CRCs ) be under review again . 
The CRCs be partnership between government , industry and scientific institute , undertake research and development . 
To ensure future funding , the economic benefit of individual program and centre will now be evaluate but Tony Staley from the CRC Association say it be hard to estimate the value of agricultural research . 
`` And happily the government be prepared to fund the next part of this work to endeavour to get a real handle , as much a you can , on those case where you 've get thousand of farmer , thousand of small business implement practice , that have be ... recommend and adopt by many many thousand of people and it 's very very hard to measure , '' he say . 
Meanwhile there be call to establish a co-operative research centre for small farm . 
North west Victorian horticulturalist Jim Belbin say property of between 10 and 30 acre be struggle to compete against much large farm . 
He believe an organisation should examine which crop could be sustainably farm on small holding of land . 
`` I be certain that there be crop that require intensive farming that be suitable to small holding , '' he say . 

Pyrethrum price cut 
Tasmanian crop farmer have be deal another blow , a cut in pyrethrum price . 
Tasmania be the world 's second large producer of the daisy , which be use to make natural insecticide . 
Growers group chairman Scott Langton say the 5 per cent price cut have be attribute to a world oversupply and be likely to halt further development . 
`` What we 're really after be just a fair and equitable return so that we can still maintain forward advancement in technology so that we 're ready to take up new technology that come on , '' he say . 

NSW Govt move to recruit UK nurse 
More overseas trained nurse will soon be hit Australia 's shore , this time from the UK . 
The New South Wales Government have adopt a recruitment program similar to one operating in Queensland . 
A team be head to the UK next week to hire 400 nurse , with another 600 be seek from Canada and other part of Europe . 
Dr Ross Maxwell from the Rural Doctors Association say it be easy to check the qualification rather than those of health professional from Africa or India . 
However he say this be not discrimination . 
`` I would hope that 's not the case and I believe that there be sound reason to target health professional where you can be confident of their training , '' he say . 

Thousands expect to flock to Fred 's Show 
The first agricultural show of the year in the Top End be expect to attract 30,000 people through the gate this weekend . 
Equestrian event be already under way south of Darwin at the four-day Fred 's Pass Rural Show . 
Last year 29,500 walk through the gate of the showgrounds , which be nestle amongst five acre rural block on Darwin City 's southern outskirt . 
And this year , a steer auction be be hold for the first time and the Territory 's Cowboys Association be hop to draw big crowd to the two day of rodeo . 
The hay-stacking event be one of the most competitive and the Tasmanian woodchoppers will showcase their talent for the 18th time . 

Buddhist monk connect with Indigenous community 
A group of Buddhist monk be find solace in a far north Western Australian Indigenous community famous for it rock art . 
An Indian guru and her nine disciple have be meditate on the pristine Mitchell Plateau of the north Kimberley . 
And Aboriginal youth from the local Candiwall community make such an impression that they have be invite to India . 
Archaeologist Lee Scott Virtue lead the group and say the connection with land be obvious , 

Threatened squirrel gilder find in south-east SA 
A mammal , similar to a sugar glider , have be find for the first time in the south-east of South Australia . 
The squirrel glider be a threatened specie more commonly find in western Victorian woodland and along the eastern seaboard . 
SA Department of Environment ecologist Dan Harley say the discovery be make by a researcher at the Museum of South Australia , who think she be look at a collection of sugar glider . 
`` When she get to this handful of specimen from the Bordertown area , she get some really weird result and scratch her head and could n't work out what be go on , '' he say . 

Fijians set sight on dairy industry 
Fiji be hop for a boom in it dairy industry , a it dominant sugar industry face a downturn . 
A delegation have be tour dairy farm in Victoria this week to investigate alternative way of farming . 
Until recently the European Union have give preferential market treatment to Fijian sugar but with an EU restructure , it be become hard for sugar grower to stay in business . 
Economist with the Fijian Ministry of Agriculture Waisiici Gonemaituba think favourable rainfall condition will be an advantage for dairy farmer . 
`` We get rain nearly every two day which be good for pasture production and the dairy industry a a whole , '' he say . 

Hay export market strong 
Australia 's hay export have reach record level with strong demand from Japan , Korea and Taiwan . 
Murray Smith , from export company Balco Australia , say last year export be value at more than $ 200 million . 
He say Australia 's high quality product be highly seek after and the market be as strong a he have ever see it . 
`` If we look at our export to seasonally adjust year end of November 05 , I think we 're up to 685,000 tonne be export out of Australia of cereal hay and straw and that 's a record as far a I 'm concerned , '' he say . 

Birdsville Track pastoralists face continue drought 
After battle seven year of drought pastoralists on the Birdsville Track in South Australia be reach break point . 
Some have not have a decent drop of rain since July last year , force them to either sell or agist most of their cattle interstate . 
Shane Oldfield from Clayton Station say this be the bad he have ever see it : 
`` We always get drought 's in this country you know two , three year , four year be a real bad one - this be the daddy of them all , '' he say . 

Iraq wheat deal collapse 
A deal to sell 350,000 tonne of Australian wheat to Iraq be off . 
The sale be broker by the consortium Wheat Australia after Iraq announce it would no longer do business with AWB . 
The consortium involve ABB , Graincorp and CBH be blame increase demand from the Iraqi Grains Board although it will not specify what they be . 
It have reject suggestion it inexperience in Iraq be a factor or because the wheat come from AWB 's national pool . 
Spokesman Rhys Ainsworth say the sale be not in the best interest of wheat grower . 
`` There be a couple of commercial issue that Wheat Australia , give that Wheat Australia be negotiate on behalf of Australian wheat grower , be n't able to agree to and unfortunately we be n't able to broker a deal over the last eight to 10 week despite what have be very positive discussion , '' he say . 
`` We 're disappoint for Australian wheat grower . 
`` Wheat Australia come together follow the effort of the Government to secure this opportunity . 
`` Certainly several of the area that we be n't able to reach agreement on be n't what you 'd call common I suppose . '' 
AWB , which have veto right over export deal , say it will reconsider whether other company can tackle the Iraq market . 

Private member 's bill 
Meanwhile Liberal MP Wilson Tuckey say he will introduce a private member 's bill to Parliament to remove AWB 's ability to veto other company from export wheat , if the Government do not . 
Mr Tuckey say it be highly predictable a deal would not be reach because the wheat be n't sell at 'arms-length ' from AWB . 
He say he will talk to the Australian Grain Exporters Association today to encourage it member to lodge wheat export application for Iraq . 
But he say the Government must also act to reduce AWB 's power . 
`` It 's now necessary that the Government in it ambition to ensure that the trade be maintain to go to Brooks Grain or one of the , a some refer to them , the foreign devil , be give every opportunity to see if they can stitch up a deal and it should be the Government 's , if necessary , urgent legislation to make sure that delivery can be obtain , '' he say . 

AWB earnings 
Despite a rocky few month , AWB be expect to post good half year earnings this week on the back of a solid wheat harvest . 
Analysts say the recent poor share price be due to speculation about the future of the single desk and not the company 's performance . 
There be also report today that a major management shake-up could be announce , although the company be not comment . 
Commsec analyst Grant Saligari say those rumour have not be put to the market . 
`` There 's be nothing flag to u by the company at this stage that they will , but that 's a possibility , '' he say . 
`` The underlying result should still be reasonably robust . There 's likely to be a number of one-off cost associate with the Cole inquiry , they 'll certainly impact the result . 
`` It 's likely to be high than the originally flag cost , as long a the inquiry go on , I guess they 'll continue to have those one-off . '' 
In another development AWB be gain a foothold in the dairy sector , announce a deal between it Landmark company and New Zealand processor Fonterra . 

Plan to deliver rural broadband may be dump 
Telstra have confirm it be consider dump a project to connect broadband Internet to thousand of country home . 
The plan involve Extel technology , which boost the power of telephone exchange by up to 20 kilometre . 
But Telstra be concern that rival company will be able to use the technology . 
Spokeswoman Liz Jurman say there be also other problem with the rollout of Extel and the company be now look at alternative way of deliver broadband to rural and remote area . 
`` The extender ca n't be use on individual customer you need to provide it where there be cluster of demand , so obviously that depend on customer demand , so we have n't yet make a final decision on that product , '' she say . 
`` And it 's important to understand this device be not the be all and end all for provide ADSL to customer . 

US cattleman lose confidence in Japanese market 
The US-based National Cattlemen 's Beef Association say it be lose confidence in the Japanese market with it refusal to set a timetable to reopen the beef trade . 
Spokesman Jay Truitt say the US have do all it can to reassure Japan that American beef be safe . 
But Japanese authority now want to do their own inspection of US meatworks after a prohibited shipment , include spinal bone , make it to Japan in January . 
While he be still hop for the market to reopen soon , Mr Truitt say Japan be a less reliable market for US producer . 
`` Our focus in the future be go to be more towards Korea , exist market like Mexico and Canada , frankly , which be the fourth large exist market for the United States and other country around the Pacific rim , '' he say . 
Despite the uncertainty , some report suggest Japan could resume import of US beef in July . 
Following talk last week , Japanese expert have reportedly tell US authority they be `` basically content '' with measure to protect shipment from mad cow disease . 
Meat and Livestock Australia 's regional manager in Tokyo Samantha Jamieson say the July start date be sooner the expect but should not cause alarm for Australian producer . 

Demand for bananas prompt desperate measure 
Competition to find enough banana be heat up in New South Wales a price continue to hover well over $ 100 a carton . 
Before cyclone Larry wipe out the north Queensland crop , grower in New South Wales be receive under $ 10 a carton . 
Coffs Harbour grower Mick Gentle say grower be receive constant phone call from agent look for more fruit and one have even buy a local plantation to ensure supply . 

Chinese currency may push wool high 
The wool market be hop for further gain this week , boost by a re-evaluation of the Chinese currency . 
The value of the yuan have be strengthen against the US dollar and wool market analyst say it be already be felt in Australia . 
The eastern market indicator rise 16 cent last week to close at 729 cent a kilogram clean . 
Landmark 's Phil Speers say with the Chinese buying around 60 per cent of Australia 's total clip , there could be further price rise . 
`` This obviously make their currency more competitive against the Australian currency which be go to make it easy for them to come in and buy our wool , '' he say . 

Water deal will bring benefit , say commission chief 
The head of the Murray Darling Basin Commission be defend the impact of the new interstate water trading agreement . 
Victoria , New South Wales and South Australia have sign a deal to trade water across state border , while the Federal Government have signal it interest in buy water for the environment . 
Chief executive Wendy Craik say while there be concern about the social impact of water be sell out of community , there be other benefit a well . 
`` Yes , when water leave an area often you know there may be an immediate impact and quite often yes they 're not positive but often new enterprise arise up in those area from where the water 's go because people have money that they do n't otherwise have from sell their water entitlement , '' she say . 

WA farmer anxious for rain 
Graingrowers in Western Australia be anxiously wait for some substantial rainfall to come out of a cold front expect to pass through in the next two day . 
Along with many farmer in the east , grow in the northern agricultural region have be dry sowing since March and be now start to worry about the impact of the ongoing dry . 
CSIRO plant scientist John Passioura say farmer underestimate how strong seed really be . 
`` If you have a false start and you get a bit of rain and the seed start to swell up and so and it 's do all of the get the machinery ready to go , the biochemical machinery , then , it will skip that phase when you get the next good rain , '' he say . 

Demand for alpaca wool increase 
If you have get an alpaca or two run around the backyard , you be be urge to shear it and sell the fleece . 
The industry 's marketing body say there have be a big jump in demand for alpaca fibre which can not be meet . 
John Bentley , from the Australian Alpaca Association , say because the animal be value a pet , or guard animal , there be less focus on their fleece . 
`` The value be still highly in the animal , which tend to make the fleece at this point in time , more a by-product , but we do have to get the product out there to the public , get them familiar with alpaca , '' he say . 

Sexy smell may help trap toad 
Bottling up cane toad ' sexual odour be the late left-field idea to trap the noxious pest . 
The new research build on a discovery that the pheromone excrete by a native male frog attract female frog at large . 
Dr Mike Tyler from the University of Adelaide say they be hop cane toad smell will have a similar pulling power . 
`` If it 's an attractant we would be able to attract perhaps female in such number that instead of have to go around and pick up one here and one there , we might be able to attract them together , '' he say . 

Govt optimistic contract change could save wheat deal 
The Federal Government say a 350,000 tonne wheat deal between Australia and Iraq could be salvage . 
Yesterday , the Wheat Australia consortium say it have fail to come to term with Iraq and negotiation for the $ 90 million deal be over . 
But Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran believe Iraq be consider remove a clause in the contract which Wheat Australia have find unacceptable . 
`` Negotiations be not necessarily over , '' he say . `` Wheat Australia be work very hard in the interest of grower to complete the sale . '' 
`` They 've take a strong line in regard to one particular clause , which they believe would disadvantage commercially Australian grower and that 's entirely proper and the right thing for them to do , and it may well be that the Iraqi side be now reconsider they 're insistence in the insertion of that particular clause . '' 
But wheat grower in Victoria say they be not surprise the deal have stall . 
While some say the contract tender should be open to other company , others believe it show the single desk be the only successful system . 
`` The world wheat market be the high it have be for five year . We 've get people out there want to pay a good price for our wheat yet we be not able to fix these deal , '' one wheat grower say . 

Wheat future near all-time high 
A global share market fall in mineral and energy stock be have unexpected benefit for wheat price , with future market at or near all-time high . 
Analysts say speculative fund appear to be pour money into wheat , a they turn away from oil , gold and copper . 
Wheat price on the Chicago Futures Exchange rise again overnight , to around $ AUD220 per tonne . 
Brett Stevenson , from Market Check , say even good price be be offer for wheat for March 2008 and 2009 , and at around $ 250 a tonne , they be just below the 1995 record . 
`` We be face for the first time a situation where the forward price three year in the future be at extraordinarily high level , nearly record , '' Mr Brett Stevenson say . 
`` We have get massive amount of money invest into the metal . We think some of that money maybe come in to the soft commodity fund in other word , wheat , you know , grain , that sort of thing . 

Weaker price for Indian wheat deal 
Despite a boom in wheat future and the low global wheat stock in 25 year , Australian farmer be not get top grain price this season . 
In the late deal , Australia be believe to have offer to sell wheat to India at a much low price than it major competitor . 
Grains analyst Malcolm Bartholomaeus say that be largely due to the practise of sell each year 's stock , before the next season 's harvest . 
`` While it may be tempt to hold wheat back against this rise market and achieve high price later in the year , the practise in Australia have really be to clear each crop before the next one come in basically at whatever price , '' he say . 
`` The storage and handle company and grower get pretty cranky if we go into the next harvest with stock still be hold in the system and I guess if AWB think that to get rid of the wheat they need to push it out at low price , then that 's what they 're do . '' 

Continuing bear market may lead to nervous investor 
The Australian Stock Exchange have begin trade marginally weak , despite strong commodity price on the London Metal Exchange overnight . 
In 10 day the local market have drop $ 80 billion , react to weaken metal price . 
Although many analyst say the market need a correction , Hartleys resource expert Rob Brierley say investor will start to get nervous if this bear market continue . 
`` Probably another week of this and people would be extremely worried , '' he say . 

Govt , Telstra assurance seek for 3G rollout 
The Federal Government be under pressure to regulate the rollout of Telstra 's new 3G mobile phone network , to make sure rural Australia be not disadvantage when the current CDMA service be shutdown . 
Telstra have promise it will not turn-off CDMA before January 2008 , even if the 3G network have reach equivalent coverage before then . 
But in Senate Estimates hearing yesterday National Party Senator Fiona Nash tell Telstra representative , regional area deserve more than just assurance from the phone company . 
`` But what if I just take you back to the Extel example and early on in the desk top study and the work that have be do in term on what could be roll out technologically , and now it seem that , 'oops that be n't quite right ' ? What I 'm try to make sure for those people that live out in regional Australia that we do n't get to the end of the rollout and hear from Telstra again , 'oops we do n't get that quite right ' . '' 

Road cut 'add to Wadeye violence ' 
Poor road infrastructure be say to have contribute to ongoing violence within the Northern Territory 's large Indigenous community . 
Flooding cut off the community of Wadeye for six month of every year and with only sea or air access it be hard for police to reach . 
At least four home have be destroy during violence in recent day . 
About 100 resident have flee and be camp in tent beside the Port Keats Road in the low Daly region . 
Fifty people be strand at the Daly River Crossing . 
Mango farmer Gary Higgins say they be be force to camp at his front gate . 
`` Yesterday when we come in there be about 30 or 40 people all at our front gate , '' he say . 
`` There be a big rock bar there and they actually use that from there to get across into the community opposite . 
`` They can only get their vehicle to our front gate . 

FMG considers rail access appeal 
A bid by the Fortescue Metals Group ( FMG ) to use a BHP Billiton railway in Western Australia 's Pilbara have fail . 
While the line be own by the mining giant , FMG have argue it should be allow access to take advantage of the resource boom , instead of have to build another railway . 
After year of debate , Treasurer Peter Costello be expect to make an announcement on the proposal yesterday but the deadline pass without comment . 
FMG 's Julian Tapp say the company be look at how it might appeal the decision , which be a blow for all small iron ore company in the region . 
`` We 've be do this not just for ourselves , but for general public interest , '' he say . 

Drought-hit farmer hope for transport subsidy 
The grip of the drought be tighten in New South Wales . 
The late figure show nearly two-thirds of the state be drought declare , and much of the rest be marginal . 
Only 10 per cent of the state be consider satisfactory . 
State Primary Industries Minister Ian Macdonald have spend the morning discuss the deteriorate condition with his colleague in Cabinet . 

Roma saleyard replaces stock ID equipment 
Australia 's big saleyard be change it national livestock identification equipment but management denies that be because it be not efficient . 
Run-through scanner be introduce at Roma in southern Queensland in July last year , to comply with the new animal traceback law . 
Since there there have be complaint of time delay and ongoing debate over whether the equipment or the agent be to blame . 
Rob Loughnan , from the saleyard 's board , say delay be an issue . 
But he say the main reason for the change be because the system can not easily separate an individual beat from a herd . 
`` The market research be tell u that very soon the buyer will be want to know if there be an animal in a particular pen that be not lifetime traceable and that 's not go to suit their requirement and that 's go to have to be highlight , '' he say . 

Study to consider wine industry 's future 
Increased domestic and international competition have prompt a new study into the future direction of the wine industry . 
The Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation and the Winemakers Federation of Australia be conduct the state of the industry study , which be to be release next year . 
But the report will not offer short-term solution for grower unable to sell their grape . 
The federation 's Dominic Nolan say it be to protect the long-term future of the wine industry , and be not a knee-jerk reaction to the grape glut . 
`` The decision that we make about plant today really have an impact in five year ' time or beyond , '' he say . 
`` What we 're look at be very much a strategic document , we 're talk what 's go to happen in the next 10 to 20 year . 

Vet 's braham fertility research honour 
The high accolade in veterinary science have be award to a man partly responsible for the success of brahman cattle in northern Australia . 
Dr Keith Entwistle have be award the Gilruth Prize at the Australian Veterinary Association 's annual conference in Hobart this week . 
He say year of research with his colleague help to solve problem with cow and bull fertility , when the brahman breed be first introduce . 
`` A lot of the research that we do over the last 30 year have certainly contribute to the wider use of the brahman , '' he say . 

AWB profit rise despite scandal 
Despite the oil-for-food inquiry and a sliding share price , wheat handler AWB have deliver a strong half-year result . 
AWB admit it be in a difficult operating environment but it profit be up 5 per cent to $ 86 million before tax . 
Profits have be boost by a strong performance from the national pool , as well a business outside the wheat trade . 
The Cole inquiry have cost almost $ 10 million so far . 
The final bill be expect to total $ 18 million , as long a there be no extension . 
While happy with the return , chairman Brendan Stewart say the company be determine to restore it reputation . 
`` I think what this demonstrate be that while we 're in challenge time , that AWB be a very resilient business and we 've get a good foundation for the future , '' Mr Stewart say . 
Mr Stewart have reaffirm the company 's plan to separate AWB Limited from it international export arm . 
`` This be a clear direction from the board that we be prepared to make change that deliver security and certainty to the single desk , '' he say . 
AWB 's result also divulge a payout worth more than $ 1 million to former manage director Andrew Lindberg . 
Mr Stewart have refuse to confirm any planned change to management until after the Cole inquiry hand down it finding . 

New document 
The Cole inquiry will be able to scrutinise new document from AWB , include the wheat exporter 's own internal investigation into Iraqi kickback allegation . 
The Federal Government have agree to change the Royal Commissions Act after a request from Commissioner Terence Cole . 
The change will come into effect from June 13 and hear be expect to be resume the follow week . 

Independent probe 
Meanwhile , a key US Senator on farm issue be ask for an independent investigation of AWB 's kickback and the failure of US authority in that country to do anything about it . 
US Senator Tom Harkin be ask the independent inspector-generals of the US Agriculture and State Departments to investigate the AWB and why the Bush Administration have brush aside similar request . 
Senator Harkin 's spokesman Dave Townsend say what happen to the $ 200 million in alleged AWB kickback be a key issue . 
`` Prior to the fall , those kickback be go to Saddam Hussein , '' he say . 
`` While Hussein be no longer in power , Senator Harkin would like to know where that money be go ... and why , at the time , ... we be n't about to figure out that those contract still contain kickback . '' 
Mr Townsend say Senator Harkin want the $ 220 million recover and return to the Iraqi people . 

Wheat sale 
The scandal be continue to affect Australia 's wheat trade with Iraq . 
Despite Federal Government speculation that a $ 90 million deal could be salvage , a member of the consortium negotiate the deal say it have definitely fail . 
Graincorp , ABB Grain and Western Australia-based CBH have be attempt to deliver $ 350,000 tonne of wheat but contractual problem have stall the deal . 

WA lift wheat import ban 
Wheat variety from the eastern state will be allow back into Western Australia , with the lifting of a ban on import . 
The restriction have be in place since December to try to prevent the introduction of wheat streak mosaic virus . 

Storm season prediction lift oil price 
The price of a barrel of crude oil have go up again overnight , after the United States ' weather forecaster predict an above-average storm season in the Gulf of Mexico . 
Twenty per cent of the gulf 's oil facility be still off-line from last season . 
ANZ Bank commodity analyst Andrew Harrington say it be the 11th above-average cyclone season in a row , and be raise question about the effect of climate change . 
`` Another above-average season do n't say much when the average be creep upwards , '' he say . 
`` I guess it 's kind of ironic when fossil fuel be drive the climate change and then you have climate change hammer fossil fuel supply . '' 

Vets push for foreign abattoir audit 
The Australian Veterinary Association want a grading system for overseas abattoir , to well manage the welfare of exported livestock . 
National president Dr Matt Makin say the treatment of Australian animal once they be unloaded in overseas port be become an increasingly contentious part of the trade . 
Cattle export to Egypt be suspend earlier this year , after mistreatment concern be raise . 
Dr Makin say the Australian industry need to take a great role in manage animal welfare , not just in the lead up to and during export . 
`` We 've be in heavy discussion with industry and with the Government to push the concept of facility audit overseas , '' he say . 

Australians to train Malaysian abattoir staff 
There be expect to be improve animal welfare standard at new cattle abattoir and train centre be build in Australia 's second large live export market , Sabah in Malaysia . 
The facility be expect to process up to 10,000 cattle from the Northern Territory . 
Robert McFarlane , from the Department of Primary Industries , say it will be build to Australian standard . 
`` They will hopefully be able to process , 70 or 80 or anything up to 100 a day if they want to , in due time , '' he say . 
`` The object be to train people and then we step back and allow them to carry on training they 're own people . 

Abetz urge cooperation in illegal fishing fight 
Australia be call for a strong global effort to combat illegal fishing . 
Signatories to a United Nations agreement on fishing be meet in New York to debate how to tackle the problem . 
The UN say the world fishing fleet be two-and-a-half time above sustainable level , and super vessel from country like China and Indonesia be operate outside international law . 
Australia 's Fisheries Minister , Senator Eric Abetz , say more cooperation be need to stop rampant illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing , which be decimate stock . 
`` We see the agreement a very important but we now be get to ensure that it be properly implement , '' he say . 

Farmers welcome new transport subsidy 
Farmers across New South Wales have welcome the reintroduction of transport subsidy under a new drought package announce by the State Government . 
An extra $ 5 million will be spend on the movement of stock , fodder and water , and fund drought support worker until the end of the year . 
Ninety per cent of the state be now in drought or consider marginal . 
New South Wales farmer Jock Laurie say the package go a long way towards help producer to get through the current crisis . 
`` Certainly it be a lot good than it be this time yesterday morning , '' he say . 
`` We have get to acknowledge the fact that the Government have move reasonably quickly on this . 
`` One thing we want more than anything else be a big shower of rain . 

Remote education change 'exciting ' 
Major change have be announce in the Northern Territory to improve the education of student in remote area . 
Existing school will be merge into a new distance learning service , with new teach position and improve technology . 
And under a two year trial , the Katherine School of the Air will also offer class to up to year nine . 
Deidre White of Narwietooma Station , north west of Alice Springs , be hop the trial will be roll out across the Territory . 
`` Parents be really worry about lose our year sevens because our school go from preschool to year seven , because it 's really to send the kid away to board school in year six , or at the end of year six , be really they be just little kid basically ( age 11 or 12 year ) , '' she say . 

New gold mine set for official opening 
Australia 's new gold mine on the edge of the remote Tanami Desert in Western Australia be be open today by Governor-General Major General Michael Jeffery . 
The Coyote gold mine have take more than a decade to become operational , at a time when gold price be enjoy record high . 
The gold mine be situate in the remote desert country between Halls Creek and Alice Springs . 
Owned by junior resource company , Tanami Gold , the Coyote mine have take 12 year from the discovery of it first gold deposit to actual mining . 
The project be put on hold last year when management decide the price hike in steel and labour would make it unfeasible , though some number crunching and a revise mine plan turn it into a workable option give the record high gold price . 
The company sign an agreement with traditional owner last year , guarantee job and business opportunity for the Tjurabalan people . 

Qld rainforest fruit producer take out national award 
A Queensland producer who grow native rainforest fruit for gourmet food have be name Australia 's first Rural Woman of the Year . 
It be the first time the seven state and territory winner have be in line for a national award and Martha Shepherd , from Eumundi on the Sunshine Coast hinterland , say she could n't have receive a high accolade . 
`` It 's a tremendous honour to be represent rural woman , they 're such an amazing group to begin with , '' she say . 
`` But also to have the opportunity to represent the award nationally and show how significant it be for the career and the future of the many rural woman . 

WEA 's day may be number , bos say 
The head of Australia 's wheat export watchdog have concede his agency could be abolish after the oil-for-food Inquiry . 
Wheat Export Authority ( WEA ) chairman Tim Besley tell a marathon senate estimate hear nothing would be the same after the Cole inquiry and plead for the role of any future body to be make clearer . 
`` My plea to anyone who 's change the act be for goodness sake make it clear just precisely what the role of the Wheat Export Authority or it successor body may have , '' he say . 
Senators at the hearing also attack WEA chief executive Glen Taylor over his pay package , age and qualification . 
Liberal Jeannie Ferris want to know why wheat grower pay Mr Taylor $ 350,000 last year . 
`` Mr Taylor earn more than the Prime Minister which be quite a remarkable feat I would have think , '' he say . 

MacNeil resign over wheat fight 
A public fight over a grower levy for the Wheat Export Authority between the Grains Council and the federal Agriculture Minister have claim a victim . 
New South Wales board member Angus MacNeil have resign from the council , after it attack Peter McGauran for backflipping on a decision to reduce the levy . 
`` All the grain industry need to be push in the same direction , '' he say . 
`` Unfortunately the grain council be alienate some of the key stakeholder and have difficulty work with them and I just do n't think that 's my style and I do n't think it be go to give u the best outcome . 
`` I mean there be a fairly public tiff that the Grains Council have with minister McGauran last week on the ABC . 
`` That be the style of thing that have happen and it be the sort of style I do n't appreciate and I do n't think be go to achieve u very much . '' 

Bird flu simulation find response time want 
While Australia be well equip to deal with a bird flu outbreak , response time by government agency need to be improve . 
That be the finding of Exercise Eleusis , a three-day simulation of Australia 's response to a fictional outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu , hold last year . 
Deputy chief veterinary officer , Bob Biddle , say the report card also show more cooperation be need between animal and human health agency , and farmer . 
`` The report show that the right decision be make and with the access to the right sort of information that be available out and about in the exercise scenario but that the committee could have perhaps reach those decision more rapidly , '' he say . 

Australia 's BSE-free status confirm 
Australia 's status a a country free from mad cow disease have officially be confirm by the world 's lead animal health agency . 

Kraft cream cheese factory move from Vic to SA 
Locals in the northern Victorian town of Strathmerton say they be shock at a decision by Kraft Foods to move cream cheese production out of the state . 
A total of 150 employee will be affect by the restructure over the next two year , with the production be move to Suttontown , near Mount Gambier , in south-east South Australia . 
Former Strathmerton resident and the head of Moira Shire , Gavin Cator , say the news be devastate . 
`` The impact on the town , it 's go to obviously have a huge impact in confidence , '' he say . 
`` We believe the dairy industry very have a good future , we have strong dairy industry in the Goulburn Murray valley , and it 's disappointing that manufacture component of it and the value add we seek locally ca n't be provide . '' 

Compost access hit mushroom grower 
Half of Queensland 's mushroom grower say they be face closure because they can not access locally-produced compost . 
The state 's large supplier , Darling Downs Mushrooms , will shut it plant near Toowoomba next month . 
It be own by multinational company Chiquita , and provide more than 20 of Queensland 's grower with compost , a vital ingredient for mushroom production . 
Withcott producer Bruce White be accuse Chiquita of try to squeeze small grower out of the market . 

Govts tell to prepare for loss of industry 
Local council and state government be be tell they should be plan for a potential loss of industry decade before it might occur , if they be to give rural town a future . 
Demographer and social researcher Bernard Salt believe community need to plan for the bad , and guarantee themselves a range of employment and investment . 
He say they should be look 20 year down the track . 

Govt urge to improve appeal of mining town 
With the booming resource sector , WA 's Chamber of Minerals and Energy say the State Government need to do more to make mining town more attractive place to live . 
The chamber say one in five Western Australians be contribute to the $ 40 million resource sector . 
Spokesman Tim Shanahan say mining company be pay record level of royalty and it be up to the State Government to ensure worker be benefit from the boom . 
`` The State Government be the responsible authority for make make those investment in regional town , '' he say . 
`` We do think there 's more to be do in invest in regional community throughout Western Australia . 

Vic Govt considers renewable energy scheme 
The Victorian Government be consider a mandatory renewable energy target to encourage wind farm expansion . 
The Government say there be no other incentive to grow the renewable energy industry , because the Federal Government will not increase it target . 
Energy Minister Theo Theophanous say power company will only buy more green energy if they have target to meet . 
`` We be still not quite at 10 per cent renewable for the whole country and that 's why we be currently look at the question of whether Victoria should just develop it own renewable energy type scheme , similar to the national MRETS scheme , '' he say . 

Industry welcome crackdown on illegal fishing 
The fishing industry have welcome new Federal Government legislation crack down on illegal fishing . 
Fisheries Minister Eric Abetz be plan to introduce legislation today that contain a maximum penalty of three year in jail and an $ 825,000 fine . 

Tuna hatchery to be build on Eyre Peninsula 
Contruction of the world 's first bluefin tuna hatchery have begin on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula . 
The new onshore facility at Arno Bay have be develop by the Clean Seas company to breed tuna in captivity . 
Kingfish and mulloway be already be breed at the site . 

Shake-up for wool industry 
The wool industry be set for a major shakeup , with the Australian Wool Exchange ( AWEX ) to abandon it auction room in Sydney and Melbourne and slash the size of it board . 
AWEX will end it auction room lease at Yennora in Sydney and Brooklyn in Melbourne by the end of the year , hand the ball to wool broker , who already run sale room in Newcastle and Fremantle . 
A review of company service have find the wool industry hold market reporting and wool classer service above the provision of sell centre , although grower body and exporter have be surprise by the decision . 
Chris Kelly from exporter Itochu say rival auction by Australian Wool Handlers have put AWEX under pressure . 
`` Look I 'm quite sure that if AWH do n't do what they do , I think this decision would n't have be make , '' he say . 
`` I think the exporter now would quite rightly question the benefit of AWEX in regard to saleroom issue . '' 

Grim winter rain outlook for eastern Australia 
Despite previous forecast , eastern Australia now look set to receive below average rainfall this winter . 
The late outlook from the National Climate Centre say most of Victoria , Tasmania , New South Wales and Queensland can expect a dry than average year , while Western Australia , South Australia and the Northern Territory can expect close to average rain . 
Climatologist Blair Trewin say region still struggle with drought be the least likely to see big winter rain . 
`` The outlook for northern New South Wales and southern Queensland be a rather dry one , '' he say . 
`` In most of that region we be say the chance of above average rainfall be only 35 to 40 per cent so about a 60 to 65 per cent chance of come in below normal . 

AWB to boost payment to grower 
In some good news for the wheat industry , AWB Limited have increase the amount of money it will pay grower next year to reflect a big jump in world grain price . 
The National Pool Price be up $ 15 a tonne , at $ 220 for the benchmark Australian premium white wheat . 
That be $ 32 high than the current harvest price . 
AWB 's National Pools manager David Johnson say the move have be fuel by a poor crop outlook in the US , and high investment in the future market by hedge fund speculator . 
`` While future have be rally the cash market for wheat have not be reflect that full rally in price and this be one of the major reason why we have a number of people say the pool be n't go up as much a they could have and that be because the cash wheat market internationally have not go up as much a the future market be reflect , '' he say . 
`` Stocks continue to tighten , that certainly augur well for price a we move forward . '' 

Cole inquiry 
In related news , the head of the Australian Federal Police will meet with Oil for Food Commissioner Terence Cole next week , a he weigh up whether to investigate evidence from the inquiry . 
AFP commissioner Mick Keelty have tell a Senate estimate hear there have be no decision on whether to press charge against AWB employee . 
Under question he tell the hearing evidence from the Cole inquiry be yet to be refer to the federal police . 
`` Not a yet Senator , I have a meeting with the royal commissioner on the first of June , '' he say . 
`` I do n't suppose he 's indicate what meeting 's about ? '' ask the senator . 
`` Well I do n't think that 's an appropriate question to ask the commissioner in any event , even if he know , '' Mr Keelty say . 
Meanwhile the Federal Opposition have step up attack on AWB for claim a tax deduction on it $ 300 million kickback payment to Iraq . 
Labor say AWB have legal advice claim it will not suffer a tax penalty on the deduction , and have call on the Government to step-in . 
But Assistant Treasurer Peter Dutton say the matter be in the hand of the Australian Tax Office , and it will decide if AWB should be penalise . 

PM defend vote on Snowy Hydro sale 
Prime Minister John Howard have reject legal opinion that a vote on the sale of the Commonwealth 's share in Snowy Hydro be unconstitutional . 
He say the Government will press on with the sale , despite admit most Australians be against it . 
Opposition to the sale have build considerably since the Government and Labor agree on a motion seven week ago , which clear the way for the sell-off . 
The Greens and some government member say they have legal advice the Parliament should have vote on legislation , and not just pass a parliamentary motion . 
`` The process of get parliamentary approval for the sale of commonwealth Snowy Hydro share be illegal , '' say Greens leader Bob Brown . 
Mr Howard expect to hear more opposition from within his own party to the sale next week , but say his own legal advice be clear . 

GG foreshadow future outback tour 
After a fortnight sleeping in his swag , the Governor-General have call for all future governors-general to take annual tour of the outback . 
Over the past two week , Major General Michael Jeffrey have cover thousand of kilometre from the Birdsville track to Western Australia 's Tanami Desert , try to bridge the divide between city and country . 
Major General Jeffrey hop an annual event could showcase the positive of rural life . 
`` And I 'd hope to persuade my successor to do the same thing , so it become part and parcel of the Governor-General 's role to be out there in the bush , be see to be in the bush and to be see to be say well do folk , '' he say . 

Beef giant pay $ 97m for Top End station 
Australia 's big beef producer will pay $ 97 million for two Northern Territory cattle station . 
The Australian Agricultural Company have enter into a head of agreement sale with Heytesbury to buy `` Anothony Lagoon '' and `` Eva Downs '' . 

Vets call for regulation of animal welfare debate 
The Australian Veterinary Association say government must regulate how the animal welfare debate be present to child . 
It be critical of a campaign be run by animal right group Voiceless , which encourage school child to speak out against issue like live export and factory farming , say it bias and threaten farm livelihood . 
President , Dr Matt Makin say child should be expose to the debate , but be question what he say be extremist view from both side . 
`` You know this be also a responsibility for government who be in charge of school curriculum , '' he say . 
`` They need to , you know , be ensure that child be expose to all the fact on both side of the debate so that the young generation can form their own opinion . 
`` And present them with one side of the debate , I think , if this Government do n't do anything about that I think it 's quite irresponsible . '' 

DNA use to identify steal sheep 
Police have use DNA test to identify sheep at the centre of stock theft investigation in Victoria . 
The Mildura Magistrates Court have find a farmer from Murrayville , in the state 's north-west , guilty of theft , after DNA test prove the genetic line of 40 cross-bred lamb . 
Senior constable Andrew Harris say while the value of the sheep be at the low end of the scale , the case demonstrate the value of the technology in investigation . 

Riverland grape grower seek compo 
The Riverland Wine Grape Growers Association want a partial compensation package from the Federal Government . 
It say the assistance drop uncontracted grape on the ground , avoid the need for them to sell fruit to winery at low price and contribute to the national oversupply . 
Executive officer Chris Byrne say the money could come from the Wine Equalisation Tax . 
`` That would go a long way towards compensate grower not to sell their fruit at 100 or 200 dollar a tonne , '' he say . 

Violence disrupts aid to E Timorese farmer 
Australian aid effort to help farmer in East Timor be be disrupt by violence which have erupt in the capital , Dili . 
The Seeds of Life project introduces and test new variety of major food crop for subsistence farmer . 
Team leader Rob Williams say roadblocks around Dili be make it hard to get out to surround district . 
`` The work in the district continue on , we need to build plant material up , ready for next wet season , '' he say . 
`` Cassava , sweet potato , corn-seed and those plant be still grow on . 
`` We have staff in the district who be continue on with the work . The civil disturbance have n't affect them , anywhere near as much a it have in Dili . There 's driver deliver sweet potato cutting , we have staff irrigate maize crop , so that we have enough seed and plant material for next year . 

Green award for horticulture industry 
Efforts by the horticulture industry to stop use one of the bad chemical to affect the ozone layer have be internationally recognise . 
The tomato and strawberry industry have phase out the use of methyl bromide . 
Australia agriculture have just be give an ozone protection award from the Environment Protection Authority in the US , which Jeff Mcspedden from Ausveg say recognise our clean and green industry . 
`` There 's be some research do on alternative and that be to use soft chemical and the other one be to use steam generator to steam the soil , or to use solarisation where they plough it in the hotter climate and let the sun get rid of nematode and problem in the soil , '' he say . 

Merger could have dire consequence for Nationals : analyst 
An expert on rural politics say the in-principle merger agreement between the Queensland Liberal and National party be a disaster for the federal Nationals . 
The agreement stem from month of talk between the Queensland conservative party on how best to beat Labor Premier Peter Beattie . 
But political analyst Professor Brian Costar from Swinburne University say a merger even at a state level would have dire consequence for the Nationals in Queensland and federally . 
He say a merger could cut the Nationals representation in the federal ministry and reduce the vote of both parity , lead to the rebirth of a 'One Nation style ' party . 
`` Some of the issue that give rise to One Nation , and particularly in Queensland where it be strong , be still bubble along below the surface , '' he say . 
Federal party leader Mark Vaile have distance the Nationals from a federal merger say there have never be a good time for regional area to have a specific rural conservative party . 
In Queensland , the merger proposal have receive a mixed response . 
Just 18 month ago it be reject out of hand , but today it be see a the only way to ultimately topple Labor . 
Lecturer in politics at Brisbane 's Griffith University Paul Williams say farmer could be the ultimate loser . 
`` I think that they potentially have a lot to lose , '' he say . 
`` One can suspect that over time that the Nationals ' voice will be drown out . 

Farmers ' confidence at low level 
Nearly one third of farmer be expect condition to worsen in the coming year . 
With a third successive survey in which confidence have decline , Rabobank head of rural banking , Neil Dobbin , say it be almost at the low level since survey begin . 
Many farmer in New South Wales and Queensland be anxiously wait for rain in order to start their winter cropping and livestock producer be also affect by the lack of feed and on-farm water supply . 
Mr Dobbin say the drought be cause great stress . 
`` We be really concern for our client and for the rural industry a a whole , there be nothing bad than be in this period of time when you be sit on the fence if you like , wait for rain , '' he say . 
`` We be in no man 's land and we just pray that we really get some good rain and we need substantial rain . 
`` We just need that break , get the crop in , there be a lot of hand feed go on at the moment . 

More extreme weather predict for Victoria 
Victoria 's Department of Primary Industries be predict the state will experience more extreme weather , with increase temperature and less rainfall . 
It be carry out a research project call the Climate Change Challenge to try to help farmer adapt . 
Project leader David Halliwell say most farmer in dry area like the Wimmera and Mallee be use to a variable climate , but they might not be ready to cope with what climate model be predict . 
`` Our frequency of extreme weather event be likely to increase into the future , '' he say . 
`` It be also say that on average temperature will increase but this do n't just mean the maximum temperature will increase , but the minimum temperature will increase a little bit as well . 

AQIS officer on alert in NT 
Quarantine authority in the Northern Territory be on full alert , a evacuee from East Timor continue to arrive . 
More than 700 of the estimated 25,000 people displace from Dili have fly into Darwin . 
C-130 Hercules cargo plane be carry up to 180 evacuee at a time from Dili to Darwin on unscheduled flight . 
So far , the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service have check over 720 evacuee from East Timor and 209 crew from the Defence Force . 
Whilst many of the passenger be traumatise and be carry the bare minimum in the haste to escape the unrest , all bag be be X-rayed or search for exotic plant like siam and khaki weed , and disease such a grapevine leaf rust . 
The giant African snail be also a major risk , and clothing , and footwear be be search for it egg , which can be carry in soil material . 

Wine export price drop 
The late wine industry survey have find wine export price be down by a third since 2002 and 40 per cent of Australian winery be run at a loss . 
The Deloitte Wine Industry Benchmarking Survey indicate many winery be struggle to survive , particularly in export market . 
Deliotte partner Stephen Harvey say the big supermarket chain in Europe have take advantage of the Australian wine glut and be force price down , and the whole industry be feel the pain . 
`` We be see a lot of it go over for buyer ' own brand in the big supermarket chain , your Sainburys , Tescos , Aldis etc , '' he say . 
`` That of course do have a flow-on effect to the brand wine . If people be able to buy buyer ' own brand at very cheap price , it naturally add some pricing pressure to your more popular and well-known brand . '' 
Meanwhile , grape grower in South Australia 's Riverland have welcome the proposal for a partial compensation package . 
About 600 people attend a rally yesterday , hear proposal from the local grower association , which will be put to Friday 's wine industry summit in Melbourne . 
The package recommend grower with uncontracted grape be pay $ 5,000 per hectare to not harvest them in the hope of reduce the national oversupply . 
The $ 80 million cost would be share by government and industry . 
Loxton grower Glen Arnold say he hop the proposal be consider . 
`` It 's a way forward for grower to have some hope , '' he say . 

Canola price on the way up 
The price outlook for canola have improve over the last few week , with Canadian carry over stock and projected planting be reduce . 
As well , Canada have report improved crush tonnage and canola export . 
Katie Cole , from Cooperative Bulk Handling in Albany in Western Australia , say there be also good news on canola pricing from Europe 's bio-fuel industry . 
`` Europe be also the last major reason why we 're see some really good news in the canola market and that 's the bio-diesel industry , '' she say . 
`` Europe 's expect to double it 's consumption of vegie oil for bio-diesel this year which will mean go up from 3 million tonne to 6 million tonne . 

Station sale to allow for expansion 
The head of Heytesbury say the sale of two of it cattle station will allow for more strategic investment into it exist live export cattle and wine business . 
Heytesbury announce the $ 97 million sale of Anthony Lagoon and Eva Downs Stations in the Northern Territory to Australia 's big beef producer , Australian Agricultural Company , on Friday . 
Chairman Janet Holmes a Court say while there be no immediate plan to purchase other station , the company might look to consolidate some of it operation . 
`` It give u the opportunity also to maybe expand our wine operation or buy other property that be close to the VRDs and the Kimberley property that we already have , '' she say . 

Raspberry levy to go into marketing 
Raspberry grower across Australia will have to pay a new industry levy from July 1 to cover cost of more research and development . 
The $ 13 million industry be set to be boost by the 10 cent a kilo levy , which will be collect by wholesale agent and supermarket , and impose on exported berry . 

Tomato grower aim for sweet success 
Growing sweeter tomato have be identify a the major goal for Australian grower over the next five year . 
Processing tomato grower , whose crop be make into paste and sauce , be currently draw up their Industry strategic plan . 
Over the last 30 year , the amount of tomato produce per hectare have rise from 25 to 84 tonne . 
But the chair of the Australian Processing Tomato Research Council , Ian Bryce , say their taste suffer . 
`` The sweetness of tomato have go down , '' he say . 

NFF concern about Snowy Hydro privatisation 
Opposition to the privatisation of Snowy Hydro continue to build . 
The nation 's chief rural lobby group have , for the first time , express serious concern about the sale and it effect on the National Water Initiative . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) fear little regard will be give to farmer who rely on Snowy Hydro 's water if the scheme be sold-off . 
And NFF president Peter Corish say fund from any privatisation should be use to protect the environment , irrigators and affect river community . 
He have also call for tight regulation of Snowy investor , include a permanent 10 per cent cap on ownership of Snowy share . 
`` We want to ensure private ownership of the water behind a dam wall , which be something that be certainly new , it 's a new principle for u in Australia that do n't negatively impact on the people who benefit from that water currently , '' he say . 
The three federal independent will table a motion in Parliament today , call for the sale to be block entirely . 
And Nationals MP Kay Hull plan to introduce a private member 's bill into Federal Parliament to permanently cap individual shareholding in Snowy Hydro to 10 per cent . 
The legislation would also stipulate that the majority of director be Australian and that the head office remain in this country . 
Mrs Hull oppose the sale , but say , a a last resort , this bill would limit foreign ownership . 
`` I will continue to fight the sale , this be a safety net in the event the sale can not be cease , '' she say . 
`` I want to ensure that enshrine in legislation be all of the safeguard that need to take place to ensure that big company and overseas company ca n't come in and buy up the Snowy . '' 
It be unclear whether the private member 's bill will receive the support of the Government or the Opposition . 

Snowy River clearance work 'too little , too late ' 
A group of farmer in Victoria 's Gippsland region say blockage at the mouth of the Snowy River be be overlook . 
Reduced flow and drought have cause a sandbar to form across the mouth of the Snowy at Marlo , flood local pasture and crop . 
Clearance work begin yesterday but resident say it be too little , too late . 
Parks Victoria ranger Dennis Matthews say open the mouth of the Snowy be difficult and he sympathise with farmer whose property have be flood . 
`` It 's not easy be a farmer endure drought and so on , and then have something like this happen , '' he say . 
`` I can understand fully their plight A lot of people farm in low lie area so I can understand that they would like to see condition of open change . 
Queensland Nationals leader Lawrence Springborg be push ahead with his plan to merge his party with the Liberals despite significant opposition from both federal Coalition party leader . 
The Prime Minister say he will only support the Nationals become Liberals , while federal Nationals leader Mark Vaile be worry his party will be destabilise by the discussion . 
This morning in Canberra , National and Liberal politician be lock in a joint party room meeting discuss the proposal but Mr Springborg say he do not need their approval . 
`` Queensland could still go it alone and there 's a whole range of way that you can do this to accommodate the concern that have be raise because those matter have not have the chance to be able to be put , '' he say . 

Beef industry help out in quake recovery effort 
The Australian beef industry be help with the recovery in quake-hit Yogyakarta in Java . 
Feedlotters , include the Consolidated Pastoral Company 's Indonesian Joint Venture , be among those help fund aid for 100,000 homeless people . 
Nurendro Trikesowo of the Indonesian Cattle and Buffalo Farmers Association say he be instal 20 health clinic and 20 simple water filter this week . 
`` That be just a pocket filter system , use some ceramic filter , to make the purification of the water , filter the water from [ toxic bacteria such a ] E. coli , '' he say . 
`` That be an important thing , that the water will be hygienic to drink for the people . [ But ] we be just a small part because they need a lot of fund for the recovery and reconstruction . 

Goat meat processor seek more overseas worker 
The meat processing industry be negotiate with the Immigration Department about the use of overseas worker . 
The nation 's large goat meat processor , Neil Duncan of Charleville in Queensland , say he need more overseas worker if he be to stay in operation . 
But Mr Duncan say the department have stop process application for skilled worker under the 457 visa program . 
`` The Immigration Department need to recognise that the meat industry do need skilled worker , '' he say . 
`` We can source skilled worker from overseas . They be there wait and unless they actually start process our application , the meat industry in Australia be go backwards . 
`` We 've get to the stage now where we 're turn away livestock . We ca n't process livestock because we just do n't have the people to be able to do it . '' 

Grain boost ABB profit 
South Australian agriculture company ABB grain have announce a 24 per cent rise in after tax , half-year profit . 
The result for the two-year old corporation be largely attribute to a 35 per cent increase in grain receivals for the last season . 
Grain market analyst , Malcolm Bartholemaeus , say that despite the malting section of the company struggle , it be still a strong result . 

Wheat consortium expect to announce Iraq deal 
An Australian consortium negotiate a 350,000 tonne wheat contract with Iraq be expect to announce this afternoon it have seal a deal worth close to $ 100 million . 
Last Monday , Wheat Australia say it have fail to come to suitable term with Iraq and negotiation for the $ 90 million dollar deal be over . 

Strawberry price tip to fall 
Strawberry price could fall dramatically later this year . 
Queensland 's strawberry season be under way , with grower enjoy the best price they have see in over a decade - up to $ 8 a punnet in some supermarket . 
But Bill Sharpe , from the Queensland Strawberry Growers Association , say there will be an oversupply and rock-bottom price by September . 
`` Somewhere along the line the middle man get certainly the benefit of it with this oversupply , but the blame be sort of twofold anyway , '' he say . 

WA ban biodiesel plant 
Western Australia 's Agriculture Protection Board have place a state-wide ban on two plant be heavily promote on the Internet a source of biodiesel . 
Bellyache bush and physic nut be both invasive plant , highly toxic to human and livestock . 
Both plant be already on the WA declare plant list , but their status have be upgrade to make sure they be ban state-wide . 

Hundreds of stock horse to gather for Polocrosse World Cup 
Up to 200 Australian stock horse will be draft for next year 's Polocrosse World Cup in Queensland . 
The event will see eight international team play over a 10-day period in April , at Warwick on the Darling Downs . 
World Cup chief horse coordinator , Kent Wells , say it be the nation 's big recruitment of horse in peacetime . 
`` Every state will have some , '' he say . 

Young Aussies urge to see outback 
From the track of Birdsville to the Tanami Desert , the administrator of the Northern Territory have call for an outback visit to become a rite of passage for young Australians , similar to the Gallipoli pilgrimage on Anzac Day . 
Ted Egan have propose a heritage tour , which would particularly encourage city kid to head to the bush . 
He say it would help show important element of this country 's history , 

Extension grant for forestry tax change submission 
An extension of time have be grant for submission on the change to plantation forestry tax . 
Some of the change include put a cap on expenditure on plantation in the first year and tax write-off be conditional on best practice be use . 
The closing date for submission have be extend for another month , until mid-July . 
Assistant Treasurer Peter Dutton say it be in response to request for more time from a number of affected farmer and forester . 
But he deny there have be a backlash to the propose change . 
`` Right around the country in rural area some farmer be strongly in favour of the way in which these forestry plantation be operate , '' he say . 
`` Other farmer outside of the industry have concern that there be the potential for high price , inflate price to be pay for land . 

Mixed prediction for pulp mill 
Shareholders of Tasmanian forestry giant , Gunns Limited , have be advise that the company 's plan to build a pulp mill be risky and they should sell their share . 
The Commonwealth Bank 's share and stockbroking arm , CommSec , predict Gunns ' plan $ 1.4 billion pulp mill will never be cost-effective . 
But industry analyst , Robert Eastment , say he have check the fact in the report , and do not believe the negativity be warrant . 
`` It 's just another report . There be some good one , there be some bad one , '' he say . 

Grain consortium hopeful of more deal with Iraq 
Australian grain consortium Wheat Australia say it do not envisage any shipping problem when it begin the export of 350,000 tonne of wheat to Iraq in the next month . 
Twelve week of negotiation conclude yesterday when Wheat Australia announce the $ 100 million wheat contract with Iraq have be finalise . 
Spokesman Rhys Ainsworth say with one agreement reach , Wheat Australia be keen to explore further market opportunity . 
`` I think the good thing about the position that Wheat Australia have get to now be that we have agree on commercially workable term that we believe can provide Wheat Australia with a solid platform that will enable it to continue what have be a very long association with one of Australia 's most critical international market , '' he say . 
Plum Grove commodity trader Tony Smith say the deal be good news for Australian grower but price be still below what farmer in the United States would receive . 
He estimate the deal to be worth around $ 190 a tonne , about $ 30 below expectation , but do not believe AWB could have do much well . 
`` At the end of the day , this deal would not have go ahead if the AWB be n't happy with the price , '' he say . 
`` So there 's no way the AWB could 've get more . You know , Wheat Australia do everything they could . There 's definitely people who be go to come out and make those comment and they 're just political comment , scaremongering . 

Planned merger not achievable , Vaile say 
Federal Nationals leader Mark Vaile say a proposal to merge the Queensland National and Liberal Parties now wo n't go ahead . 
He meet with Queensland Nationals leader Lawrence Springborg yesterday and while he deny he have convince Mr Springborg to abort the plan , Mr Vaile think the merger be not achievable . 
He say effort now need to go into develop the Queensland Coalition . 
`` Clearly if you look at the public comment and concern that 's be raise we be fast reach a point where that be not go to be achievable , '' he say . 
`` So my view we need to ensure that Queensland move ahead develop and refine the exist Coalition arrangement in Queensland . '' 
Deputy federal leader of the Nationals Warren Truss say there be strong support for a united conservative force in Queensland but the merger model be unfair and unworkable for member of the National party . 

Snowy Hydro foreign ownership cap not enough : rice grower 
The Ricegrowers Association of Australia say the cap on foreign ownership of Snowy Hydro be not enough to protect irrigators ' interest . 
The New South Wales , Victorian and Federal Governments yesterday agree to permanently limit foreign ownership of the scheme to 35 per cent , with a cap of 15 per cent for individual foreign investor . 
But Ricegrowers Association president Laurie Arthur say that would not prevent a large Australian company buy a majority stake . 
`` It 's some recognition that the government be listen to the concern that have be put to them , '' he say . 
`` It do n't go far enough , we still believe there 's the capacity for an Australian company to have undue influence a regard to the licence that control the water and the release of water . '' 
The Murray Darling Basin Commission and the National Farmers Federation be also worry about aspect of the deal . 
But federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say regardless of who own Snowy Hydro , the interest of irrigators be guarantee in the Snowy water licensing agreement . 
`` It be develop by the Australian , New South Wales and Victorian Governments at the time of corporatisation specifically to protect security , it guarantee the volume for irrigators , '' he say . 

McGuigan Simeon write down wine stock 
Wine company McGuigan Simeon will write down wine stock by up to $ 20 million and will not pay a final dividend to it shareholder this year . 
On Monday the company ask the Australian Stock Exchange to halt it trading until this morning , when the result of an operational review be release . 
Managing director Dane Hudson say the company be force to write down stock because of the recent decline in bulk wine price . 
`` It 's a small percentage of our total stock , '' he say . 
`` This be probably a 9 per cent reduction and it 's for old vintage . We be comfortable with our 2006 vintage but this be old stock that we need to reprice to clear on the bulk market . '' 

Survey point to excellent outlook for dairy farmer 
There be an excellent outlook for Australia 's dairy industry . 
Dairy Australia have release it late report base on the annual dairy farmer survey and interview with industry member . 
The report find nearly two third of dairy farmer be look to increase the scale of their operation but many small operator be sell out or change to beef or crop . 
Increased demand mean strong price competition for supplier between processor . 
But one of the report 's author , Steve Spencer , say processor be concern that tight supply will mean a loss of market . 

Naracoorte meatworkers angry over wage 
Local worker at a South Australian abattoir be angry that their hour have be cut , while Chinese employee on temporary visa be be pay full-time wage . 
Two hundred and sixty Australian worker at the Teys Brothers meatworks at Naracoorte have be work a four-day week because of a shortage of stock . 
But even though the Chinese worker be work a similar number of hour , their visa condition require that they receive a full week 's pay . 
Graham Smith , from the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union , say it be absurd . 
`` The meat industry be seasonal to start with , '' he say . 
`` Where the term of the visa be that you 've get to have a severe skill shortage that you 've get to fill , it seem absurd that in an industry where we stand people down for large part of the year because there 's no work for them , that you can say there 's a corresponding skill shortage . '' 

Farmers give Vic Budget thumb down 
The Victorian Farmers Federation say the Victorian Budget have fail to target press road , rail and water infrastructure need in rural area . 
In fact , the farming body say the State Budget be so disappointing that it may campaign against the Bracks Government during the November election . 
VFF president Simon Ramsay say while fund for education be welcome , the Budget be one of missed opportunity . 
`` The road be the main one , '' he say . 

Lettuce aphid find in SA 
The currant lettuce aphid have be find in South Australia for the first time . 
Authorities have detect the pest on property in the Adelaide Hills and the northern Adelaide Plains . 
The aphid be find in Victoria last year and have plague lettuce crop in Tasmania since 2004 . 
Originally , South Australia ban import of interstate lettuce to protect the industry , but this have now be remove . 

Tas apple industry facing challenge 
The future of apple grow in the Apple Isle be be re-examined , in the light of increased global competition , a high dollar and increase production cost . 
Fruit Growers Tasmania have hold a grower meeting to discuss the challenge . 
One of the more well-known orcharding family , the Drieesen brother at Castle Forbes Bay , be opt out of the industry after 50 year . 
Jos Driessen say the land , overlook the scenic D'Entrecasteaux Channel , will be sell to sea changer . 
`` My plan for the future be to retire . I 've be lose the passion to grow apple . I think it 's become a more difficult industry to be in , '' he say . 

Flinders Is may go native under tourism plan 
One of South Australia 's big island could become an ecotourism venture . 
Peter and Pam Woolford have begin discussion with the Department of Environment and Heritage about de-stocking Flinders Island , which be off Elliston on the state 's west coast . 
Mr Woolford say he want to control the feral animal and reintroduce native plant and animal . 
`` What I 'd like to see be the native flora and fauna return more to it natural state , '' he say . 
`` We have some feral animal there , which be probably an inheritance off the Kupara , which run aground on the island in 1946 . 

Labour shortage hit northern NSW 
More than 50 agricultural job be currently go beg on the New South Wales north coast despite unemployment there be almost double the national average . 
The beef , chicken and pork industry be face a critical shortage of labour . 
Northern Co-operative Meat Company 's Gary Burridge say local business be find worker be turn away from the rural sector . 
`` We in our organisation be suffer a severe shortage of highly skilled labour and semi-skilled labour , '' he say . 

Govt blueprint for the bush reveal 
The Beattie Government have unveil a long-awaited $ 150 million blueprint for rural and regional Queensland . 
The blueprint be a three-way partnership between state and local government and the lobby group Agforce . 
It come out of anger over tree-clearing law and a feeling of neglect by the region west of the Great Dividing Range . 
It aim to improve the sustainability , liveability and profitability of regional Queensland . 
It cover a new agreement allow for up to 50 year lease and a commitment to review how tree clearing law be implement . 
It be also go to pay farmer to be steward of the environment . 

Govt expect to abandon diesel fuel rebate change 
The Federal Government be expect to announce a backflip on propose change to it diesel fuel rebate later today . 
Under the current system , fuel energy credit be refund to farmer and other big diesel user through cash payment to bank account . 
The Government have plan to add the refund to GST rebate , which industry say would create a cash-flow nightmare . 

Labor target regional Coalition voter 
The Federal Opposition have move to capitalise on the turmoil within the Nationals , launch a drive to win over disaffected Coalition voter in regional Australia . 
Labor leader Kim Beazley meet with the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) last night . 
He say he want to open a new dialogue directly with regional Australia . 
Mr Beazley say Labor and farmer have plenty in common , despite Labor 's opposition to the Workchoices policy and import foreign worker , which be both support by the NFF . 
Mr Beazley say the party will win seat in regional Australia at the next election base on what he say be a cumulative affect of issue like the sell-off of Telstra , Australia 's trade performance and the now defunct Nationals merger . 
`` After a while everyone wake up and this be what 's happen now , '' he say . 
Mr Beazley say regional development spokesman Simon Crean and disendorsed Opposition agriculture spokesman Gavan O'Connor will lead the regional policy push . 

Beef exporter brace for US competition 
The United States be hop to cut Australia 's $ 500 million beef market to South Korea when export resume next week . 
Meat and Livestock Australia 's regional manager in Korea Glenn Feist say exporter be brace themselves for major competition for the first time in more than two year . 
He expect to see export level drop but hop Australia will be able to hold onto a market share of around 50 per cent . 
`` Australia win brand of the year twice in a row here with the country of origin label with our statement : 'Australian beef clean and safe ' , '' he say . 
`` But since the US have be out it have give u an opportunity and we grow beef for the five star dining hotel and that sort of stuff - we have get manufacturing beef for the McDonald 's and the Burger King [ chain ] and those guy . 
`` So I think we will hold our own pretty well up here . '' 
The Cattle Council say Australian producer be likely to retain their stronghold on the market for bone-in beef in Korea . 
The amount of US beef allow in will be limit by a continue ban on cattle over 30 month of age , which will help Australia remain competitive , accord to council president Bill Bray . 
`` The main trade in beef into Korea have be the bone-in short rib and we 've be ask to continue to supply that because we have the high freedom-ranking for BSE in the world , '' he say . 

Irrigation charge increase expect to hurt farmer 
Many New South Wales irrigators look set to pay more for the delivery of their water . 
The Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal have release a draft report propose significant increase to bulk water charge . 
The impact will vary across the State but Murray Irrigation be expect charge to rise by 80 per cent over four year . 
General manager George Warne say that be go to hurt farmer . 
`` Governments do n't realise that we 've be beat up by four or five year of drought , '' he say . 

Wool broker play down buyer protest 
Tasmanian wool broker , Roberts Limited , be play down a protest by buyer at an auction in Melbourne this week . 
Sources claim a large number of buyer do not bid on the Roberts catalogue because they believe the company 's new wool pool , to supply fibre direct to customer , will cost them their commission . 
Of 2,500 bale offer by Roberts , 38 per cent be pass in . 
Murray Best from Roberts have confirm the protest but say it only involve four buyer . 
He say the company only want to sell 10 per cent of Tasmanian wool through the pool system but admit that figure could increase . 

Simplot increase price for pea grower 
Vegetable processor Simplot say it be respond to the concern raise through the Fair Dinkum Food Campaign by offer Tasmanian farmer well price and contract for their pea . 
Simplot want to almost double the amount of pea it buy to meet new demand from the major supermarket chain for Australian-grown product . 
Managing director Terry O'Brien be also hop a 6 per cent price rise will encourage grower back into the industry . 
`` I 'm encourage them to think about the fact that they stimulate a lot of interest last year with their tractor trip to Canberra , '' he say . 

Cattle feedlot give green light 
The New South Wales Government have approve a $ 60 million cattle feedlot at Moira Station near Mathoura in the southern Riverina . 
The 160,000 head feedlot will be one of Australia 's big and include a feed mill and hay processor . 
The State Government have order the developer to start the feedlot operate at half capacity , with an independent audit require before production can be increase . 

Export market go feral over turn-off label for goat meat 
The goat industry be be urge to ditch the term `` feral '' and relabel it meat to Australian `` rangeland '' goat . 
While there have be a big jump in the number of farmed meat goat in Australia , at least half of the country 's export still come from the feral goat population in semi-arid rangeland country . 
John Hayes , from the Wodonga abattoir , which export to the US , say the term feral be a big turn-off for overseas buyer . 

NQ school to set up vet training centre 
A north Queensland boarding school be tackle a shortage of rural vet head on . 
The Columbia Catholic College plan to build a veterinary training centre on it campus in Charters Towers . 
College principal Althea Norton hop invest more than $ 300,000 in a new centre will encourage more student to take up vet science . 

Teens urge to consider join cattle industry 
More teenager be be encourage to consider join the cattle industry a part of a partnership between a public high school and a cattle station . 
The Northern Territory 's Coodardie Brahman Stud supply weaner steer to Taminmin High School on Darwin 's outskirt . 
The bush steer be break to halter and present for show and sale by the student . 
Stud director Moira O'brien say it help to give them a well understanding about the production and marketing cycle of the cattle industry . 
`` We really enjoy help them out and work in their program , and I think it 's really important for that industry community , collaboration , and anywhere where we can encourage young people and teach city people about agricultural life and cattle station working and the industry , I think be really , really important , '' she say . 

Irrigators pass no confidence vote in NSW Govt 
A vote of no confidence have be pass in the New South Wales Government over it handling of the sale of Snowy Hydro . 
The move by Riverina irrigators come a Finance Minister John Della Bosca meet with concerned farmer today at Deniliquin in the state 's south . 
Last night in Deniliquin , 300 people show their displeasure at the New South Wales Government 's handling of the sale of Snowy Hydro . 
Mr Della Bosca be invite to the public meeting , organise by the Nationals but decline . 
Today , in the same town , he will talk with irrigators in a closed meeting to hear their concern about the sale of Snowy Hydro . 
Organised by the Southern Riverina Irrigators Group , farmer say they be worried about what will happen to water entitlement if the Snowy scheme be privatise . 

Irrigators relieve at Snowy Hydro sale collapse 
Irrigators say they be surprised and relieve at the collapse of the sale of the Snowy Hydro electricity scheme . 
The Federal Government pull out of the sale this morning , cite concern from backbencher and grow public opposition . 
The New South Wales and Victorian Governments have also back down . 
Laurie Arthur from the Rice Growers Association say he do not think there be any way to stop the sale . 
He say irrigators be worry about their access to water once the scheme be privatise and most will be please with the about-turn . 
`` I 'm sure probably 80 per cent of irrigators be delight that Snowy Hydro will not be privatise , '' he say . 
`` I think some of our people think that government do n't do a particularly good job of run company and so it 's still a very complicated issue and I would predict that we have n't actually see the last of it within the next 10 year would be surprise if it do n't raise it head again . '' 
Prime Minister John Howard say although irrigator licensing condition be a factor in the Government 's decision , it be public opinion that force the change . 

Govt urge to protect local ethanol industry 
The ethanol industry say it will be devastate by a Federal Government proposal to allow cheap import into Australia . 
Legislation table in Parliament call for the excise on import ethanol to be reduce by 2011 to the same rate a locally-produced biofuel . 
It also outline a planned increase in tax for Australian-made ethanol from 2.5 cent a litre to 12.5 cent . 
Bob Gordon from Renewable Fuels Australia say the Government should do more to protect the local industry . 
`` Unlike other country we be go to be one of the first country in the world to actually tax renewable fuel , '' he say . 
`` Now we 're prepared to live with that but we want a regime for transition that stimulate new industry growth rather than undermine it . 
`` The one propose in the tax Bill will clearly undermine that goal . '' 
Resources Minister Ian Macfarlane have deny the claim . 
He say ethanol will still have an excise advantage over petrol and the industry have have year to prepare for the change . 
Meanwhile the Federal Government have decide to phase in it change to the diesel fuel rebate , to give farmer and transport operator time to adjust . 
The plan will replace cash payment to farmer with a refund add to GST rebate and be due to be implement on July 1 . 
But now , during a two-year transition period , farmer will be able to claim their rebate , but will also have to report it in business activity statement . 
South Australian farmer Doug Hall say that will make the system more complicated . 
`` I just do n't see it be any easy at all , it just do n't make sense to me so why be they play around with this you know , who be the winner at the end of the day ? '' he say . 
`` I 'm certainly not sure it 's the farmer , it 's the damn Government again . '' 
The renewable energy industry want a national incentive-based market to encourage consumer to use clean fuel . 
It have release a report look at development to 2050 , in which renewable energy will be cheap , have high export potential and provide a clean and cheap solution to climate change and energy shortage . 
David Holland from Renewable Energy Generators Australia say the Federal Government should extend tax break to get the technology up and run . 
`` The technology will always be more expensive than the old process of pull coal out of the ground and set fire to it , '' he say . 
`` The environment be a critical issue not just for Australia but for the planet and really the government be the only people that be in the position to take that leadership but there need to be some systemic process that drive the move towards renewables . '' 
The Government have reject the call , say hundred of million of dollar have already be allocate to renewable energy generation . 

Code of practice limit use of sow stall 
The pork industry have agree to limit the use of sow stall under a new code of practice for the welfare of pig . 
Australian Pork Limited , the peak body represent producer , say it will reduce the amount of time pig spend in the stall , from the full 16 week of pregnancy to six week . 
Peter Robertson from the New South Wales Farmers Association say it be a proactive step to improve animal care . 
`` The industry have take the decision that we have to concede that we need to have sow with a little more exercise during gestation , '' he say . 
`` By the same token we need the sow stall for the first six week that they be pregnant so that they do not abort and have other problem at that stage . '' 

Hunter Valley coal miner remain on strike 
One hundred Hunter Valley coal miner be into the second day of a week-long strike after a breakdown in talk over wage and condition . 
Workers at the Xstrata-owned United Colliery be the first to undertake a court-approved stoppage under the new federal industrial relation reform . 
They have be attempt to settle on a new enterprise agreement since December . 
Xstrata say it have make a good offer and believe the strike be part of a broad political campaign by the union . 
But Grahame Kelly from the CFMEU say the offer do not reflect the performance of the work force . 

Boral Timber mill to close 
Boral Timber be close two mill on the north coast of New South Wales a part of a major restructure . 
The Kempsey and Bostobrick Mill near Dorrigo will close , with the loss of 47 job . 

Grain grower tell to stop sowing crop 
Western Australian grain grower be be tell to stop sowing crop because there be no rain in sight for at least two week . 
Many farmer have already plant a good percentage of their crop and state authority say they need to assess their financial position . 
Peter Metcalf from the Department of Agriculture in Geraldton say it be time to pull up the seeder and start make a plan for the rest of this season . 
`` What tend to happen in this situation , which be a very unusual situation , most grower have n't previously be in this state , or these condition previously , be that you start the program and you continue on , '' he say . 

Violence hit E Timorese agriculture 
East Timor 's agriculture sector have be seriously affect by recent violence . 
Fires , loot and mayhem in the capital Dili have destroy eight year of research and documentation . 
The price of fresh fruit and vegetable have also sky-rocketed . 
Minister for Agriculture , Forestry and Fisheries , Estanislau Da Silva , also fear coffee export could be down by more than half . 
`` Now we be in the coffee season . It 's the harvesting coffee season and this can have a tremendous impact on the livelihood and the people who depend on coffee , '' he say . 

Ugly sheep could save wool industry 
The search be on for the ugly merino lamb , because they could save Australia 's billion dollar wool industry . 
Scientists from the South Australian Research and Development Institute ( SARDI ) and the University of Adelaide be look for sheep with 'unusual wool ' , say they hold the key to improve the genetic quality of merino wool . 
Professor Phil Hynd from the University of Adelaide say lamb be usually cull because they have uneven wool , no crimp or bare patch . 
He say study the lamb will help them identify gene which affect wool production . 
`` We 've already get about half a dozen animal that producer provide u with and man , they 're the weird look mob of sheep that you 've ever see in your life , '' he say . 
`` They 're quite embarrassing really , even the sheep look embarrass . 

Indonesian fisherman to face court over alleged poaching 
Twelve Indonesian fisherman will face court in Broome today , accuse of poach the sea cucumber delicacy , trepang . 

Wine grower suggest pull out cool climate vine 
A respect South Australian vigneron have suggest pull out grape vine in cool climate vineyard and put the land to other use . 
Coonawarra vigneron Ian Hollick say grape grower in cooler area have be sell fruit at below the cost of production for the past three year , and there be no end in sight . 
He do not think a proposal to compensate struggle grape grower be the way forward for the industry . 
`` I think it get to the stage where we have to really bite the bullet and say that we need to remove so many thousand of hectare of cool climate grape , '' he say . 

Farmers still want access to Snowy Hydro document 
Farmers still want access to confidential information about water release from Snowy Hydro , despite the collapse of plan to sell the electricity scheme . 
Last week the New South Wales Government promise to let a delegation of farmer see document relate to when water be release for irrigation . 
Within 24 hour the Federal Government have withdraw from the sale and it be abandon . 
Chairman of Southern Riverina Irrigators Ted Hatty say farmer will hold the State Government to it promise . 

Doctors urge govt reform on rural medical service 
Doctors say access to obstetric service in rural Australia be become critical and be call for urgent government reform . 
In allegation to be air on ABC 's Four Corners program tonight , doctor also claim that in some area chemotherapy be be administer by people without formal qualification . 
They have also raise concern about the loneliness of cancer patient force to move to the city for treatment and the pressure that be force doctor to pack up and leave country town . 
Dr Ross Maxwell from the Rural Doctors Association say the problem be acute and most effort to solve them be not make much difference . 
`` We have be reluctant to try and look at the economics around rural and remote practice and say well if the mining industry want to get professional out into a remote community they make sure the condition be right and attractive and can get them out there , '' he say . 

Group seek Govt help to reduce regional alcohol abuse 
A national alcohol rehabilitation group be call on the Federal Government to help stem the rise of alcohol abuse in regional Australia . 
The Alcohol Education and Rehabilitation Foundation want the Government to fund ongoing campaign in rural area because the level of injury and death from alcohol be much high than in the city . 
Foundation chief executive Daryl Smeaton say it do not make sense that $ 2 billion have be spend on campaign against illicit drug , when only 5 per cent of the population use them . 
He say for 85 per cent of people , alcohol be their drug of choice . 
`` We think of a drug problem , we think of cannabis and amphetamine because that 's what the Federal Government keep on tell u , '' he say . 

Tas cow test positive for hydatid tapeworm 
A Tasmanian breed cow have test positive for the hydatid tapeworm , the state 's first case in a decade . 
Tasmania embark on a world lead hydatid eradication program 40 year ago and while hydatid have be discover since , most have be trace to import stock . 
The state be declare provisionally-free of hydatid disease in 1996 . 
Chief vet Rod Andrewartha say the infected cow be part of a mixed line of cattle . 
`` Occasionally of course we will detect cyst and we can normally trace them back to sheep or cattle import from the mainland , in this particular case we find it in an animal which be bear and breed in Tasmania , '' he say . 

Herpes-like virus threaten Vic abalone stock 
Efforts be under way to control a herpes-like virus which be kill abalone off the south-west Victorian coast . 
The disease , ganglioneuritis , have be detect at four farm in south-west Victoria and at Flinders near Port Phillip Bay , with million of dollar worth of stock have to be destroy . 
Fisheries Victoria say the disease have now escape into the wild off Port Fairy . 
Fisheries executive director Peter Appleford say although a similar disease devastate the abalone industry in Taiwan in 2003 , he be hopeful control measure will stop a further spread here . 
`` What we 're look at be to put some control in place along the coastline to limit the activity there , '' he say . 

Dept , fisherman warn of import prawn disease 
Queensland 's Department of Primary Industries have issue a warning against use imported raw prawn a bait , amid grow concern they could carry disease . 
Commercial fisherman want raw prawn import stop , claim health inspection be too random . 
They say up to 60 consignment have recently test positive for white spot disease , the so-called foot and mouth of prawn . 
Dr Ian Anderson , Queensland 's principal veterinary pathologist on fish disease , agree that import do pose a threat . 
`` Prawns import for human consumption can get purchase by recreational fisher and then use in their fishing activity and so that be a potential route of the spread of the virus from the imported product for human consumption through to our wild fishery stock , '' Dr Anderson say . 

Lobster fisherman deny flood market with snapper 
South Australian lobster fisherman have reject claim they be flood the market with snapper and force down price . 
The SA Rock Lobster Advisory Council say fisherman be entitle to fish for snapper in the lobster off-season but have only catch 10 tonne of the fish since July last year . 
Spokesman Daryl Spencer have deny claim that two lobster boat unload 10 tonne of snapper each at Port Lincoln at the weekend . 
`` There 's one boat at this point in time since the end of our lobster season that 's actually target snapper and in the 10 day that he have be fish , he 's take in total 3.9 tonne in total , '' he say . 

Indonesian fisherman jail for poach sea cucumber 
Eleven Indonesian fisherman have be jail after be catch poach the sea cucumber , trepang , in Australian water north of Broome in Western Australia last month . 
They be on board two boat intercept by the Navy at Scott Reef . 
One of the captain have be sentence to seven month jail , while the other captain and nine crew member have be fin . 
They will spend between three and six month in jail because they could not pay the penalty . 

March flood continue to impact on Ord River crop yield 
Horticulturalists in the far north of Western Australia be still feel the effect of flood which hit the Ord River region earlier this year . 
In March , 300 millimetre of rain fell within 24 hour , make sown crop look like rice paddy . 
Farmer David Menzell say he should now be in top-gear harvesting melon but have lose a whole month of production , 

Historic SA outback hotel set for sale 
An increase number of hotel be up for sale in outback South Australia . 
Among them be the Oodnadatta Roadhouse and the iconic Mungerannie Hotel on the Birdsville Track . 
Publican Genevieve Hammond say after 11 year they have decide to move from the desert and head north to the tropic of north Queensland . 
She say although few people want to move to remote area , they have already get some interested buyer . 

Students showcase environmentally sound project 
School student from New South Wales , Victoria and the ACT be in Canberra for a Youth River Health Conference . 
The student have be work on environmental project in the classroom and will give presentation in the form of music , dance , skit and board game . 
Projects range from wildlife habitat to compost system in playground . 

CSIRO report urge rural , urban water trading 
A major scientific report say city water authority should be allow to buy water from farmer to sustain the grow urban population . 
The CSIRO say without reform , water cost in metropolitan area could rise more than 10 time over the next 25 year . 
The report from the CSIRO and Monash University predict Perth , Brisbane and Sydney will be the bad affected city with the price of water jump up to 10 time unless good reform be put in place . 
Three model have be test and CSIRO say the most successful would be a combination of urban and rural water trading , alongside more efficient water use include desalination plant . 
And while farmer could make a lot of money from water trading , the system would change the face of agriculture in Australia . 
The CSIRO 's Mike Young say urban/rural water trading be already work in South Australia and WA farmer be lead the way in save water . 
`` Agriculture 's a lot more skilful in improve water use efficiency and in 25 year time they 've make a 50 per cent great advance than urban Australia , so there 's a challenge for urban Australia to catch up and show they 're actually as smart a our farmer be , '' Mr Young say . 
Bit some irrigators be worried about the social impact of water be divert into the capital city . 
Although he believe some form of water trading with the city be inevitable , Victorian dairy farmer Max Fehring say government need to make sure urban resident share the cost of water infrastructure with rural community . 

Aust wheat price surge on back of international season 
There be finally some good news for grain grower today , with international competition drive a big surge in wheat price for the 2006-07 season . 
AWB have release it first price estimate for wheat deliver to the national pool next harvest , with the benchmark Australian Premium White Wheat sit at $ 222 a tonne , up $ 30 on last season . 
National Pool manager David Johnson say while price can still change , Australia be in a good position to capitalise on low world production figure . 
`` We have a much strong fundamental story around hard wheat in particular at the moment , with the US hard red winter crop experience some production difficulty , '' he say . 

Expensive feed grain price impact on grazier 
Graziers buy grain to fee livestock this winter be feel the pinch , with price continue to rise . 
Dry condition , high petrol price and strong global grain price be all affect the cost of feed grain . 
Ron Storey from Australian Crop Forecasters say the success of grain-fed beef export be also put more demand on supply . 
`` Our demand here for grain domestically be be underpinned very , very solidly by a very strong feedlot cattle market , with grain-fed beef be in strong demand where BSE have give Australia pretty much by most of the market , '' he say . 

Aust Farm Institute urge drought policy reform 
The late conclusion on drought policy reform , prepare for the Australian Farm Institute , say farmer should be encourage to be well prepare for drought and government need a major overhaul of how financial assistance be provide . 
Several expert have prepare paper for the Institute and most agree that current drought policy be too focus on crisis management . 
Financial adviser Rob Brown argue the policy penalise farmer who run their business in way to cope with drought . 
`` If you have prepare , in fact if you 've do the thing that be the objective of the drought policy , then you wo n't be eligible , '' he say . 
And while there be a belief that government policy can actually worsen the wellbeing of farmer and waste resource , others say that few farmer be ask for help because of good farm management . 
Linda Botterill from the University of NSW believe an income base loan scheme would be simple and more effective at help farmer through drought , and be less of a knee-jerk reaction from government . 

Suspected illegal fisherman head to Broome for question 
Six Indonesian fisherman suspect of poach the sea cucumber trepang , have be take to Broome for question by Australian Customs . 
The Navy intercept the fisherman at the weekend on a boat near Scotts Reef , 250 kilometre off the north-west coast of Western Australia . 
Customs spokesman Peter Costantino claim they be catch with the sea cucumber on board . 
`` There be a small quantity of trepang find on board the vessel when the Navy board it and the fisherman be actively fish at that time and dive on the reef , '' he say . 
`` The vessel start to be tow into Broome , but unfortunately break up . The six fisherman be transport to the HMAS Larrakia and the vessel be destroy at sea . '' 

Wild river legislation will hamper development : group 
Graziers and Indigenous leader on the Cape York Peninsula say future development of the region will be stifle by the Queensland Government 's new wild river legislation . 
The draft policy aim to protect 19 of the state 's pristine river catchment , by introduce restriction on agriculture , aquaculture and grazing . 
Head of the Cape York Institute , Noel Pearson , say pastoralists and traditional landowner need to work together to fight the policy and environmentalist . 
`` We find ourselves in a position where the Greens no longer respect the fact people need economic development and the cattle industry in this region , and they 've be win , '' Mr Pearson say . 

Groote Eylandt give Indigenous protection status 
Australia 's third large island be be declare an Indigenous Protected Area ( IPA ) today . 
Stakeholders have gather to celebrate on Groote Eylandt in Northern Territory water of the Gulf of Carpentaria . 
Under the agreement , the traditional owner of Groote Eylandt who speak Anindilyakwa will manage their land for conservation and heritage value . 
Land Council Chairman Tony Wurramarrba say a local manganese mine be part of the plan . 
`` Virtually mean that we can look after our land , more efficiently . We be in a very unique situation here on an island , '' he say . 
`` We do n't have any feral animal that they do have on the mainland . One of the main change that we see ( be that ) we ( will ) have more control over our land . 

McGuigan Simeon may extend fruit contract suspension 
McGuigan Simeon Wines say contract with grape grower in the Murray Valley and Riverland be likely to remain suspended until after next harvest . 
Supply agreement involve 160 grower be place on hold in December last year , due to a national oversupply . 
A large amount of fruit be leave to rot in vineyard or sell below the cost of production . 
Mike Stone from Murray Valley Winegrowers say grower be devastate by the decision to extend the suspension and now have to consider how to manage their vineyard . 
`` Growers have be give plenty of notice unlike in 2005 when they be tell in December two month before the 06 harvest that their fruit be to be suspend , '' he say . 

Winemakers group downgrade vintage estimate 
The Winemakers Federation have downgrade this season 's vintage estimate by 79,000 tonne . 
Australia 's total tonnage have fall to 1.486 million tonne , slightly down on last year . 
Chief executive Stephen Strachan say early figure release last month do not take into account the amount of fruit that would not be harvest . 
`` The vintage come in at about 4 per cent down on last year 's record level , '' he say . 
`` You 'd probably recall that we 've have two record season 's in a row , give that there 's be quite a significant surplus in place in the industry I think everyone be hopeful we 'd have a vintage that be a bit lower this year and it have be . 
That say though there 's be a lot of fruit leave on the vine or work into the ground and have that all be process we probably would have have another record this year . '' 
Meanwhile the national wine grape grower body will put forward plan for a $ 60 million revival package at an industry summit in Melbourne on Friday . 
Mark Mckenzie from Wine Grape Growers Australia say the proposal would take at least 600,000 tonne of grape out of production over the next two year , to ease the industry oversupply . 
Mr McKenzie say the money could be generate by levy , and use to pay grower to put their vineyard into hibernation . 
`` Effectively it 's 15,000 hectare at $ 2,000 so we 're talk about $ 30 million a year each year for two year - a $ 60 million package , '' he say . 

Barraba resident cautiously welcome mine company plan 
Residents at Barraba , in the north-west of New South Wales , have cautiously welcome a mining company 's plan to extract mineral from the old Woodsreef asbestos mine . 
The Sydney-based International Minerals Corporation have be grant an exploration licence worth hundred of million of dollar , which could involve a new magnesium metal and silica production plant at the mine . 
The site near the town be abandon in 1983 . 
Former mayor Shirley Close hop the deal will go ahead , bring up to 100 new job to the region . 

Disease outbreak hit abalone industry 
The abalone industry in south-west Victoria say it will take at least 12 month to recover from an outbreak of the herpes-like virus , ganglioneuritis . 
Four abalone farm have be hit by the disease . 
Tim Rudge from Allestree Coastal Seafarms at Portland say it appear the outbreak come from wild breed stock , and be a severe setback . 
`` So we 've have to lay people off and the other unfortunate thing be that in the south-west here we have develop a fantastic relationship here with the two local processor , '' he say . 

Dairy operator seek investor fund 
The developer of a large , new dairy venture in South Australia be try to attract cash from the manage investment sector . 
Believed to be the first scheme of it kind in the state , the $ 15 million project at Tintinara , south of Adelaide , follow investor interest in vineyard , olive and blue gum plantation . 
Developer Peter Ryan say high demand from milk processor and steady return to farmer be make the dairy industry more attractive to investor . 
`` International indicator be good , here in Australia projection for demand continue to exceed projection for supply , '' he say . 

Forecaster offer winter rain hope 
With a lot of seed in the ground and many grain grower look for vital follow-up rain , long-range weather forecaster be offer some hope this winter . 
While the Bureau of Meteorology be predict a dry than average season , others be tip good condition , particularly for the southern state . 
Queensland-based Hayden Walker , who predict the weather up to 18 month in advance , reckons this winter will be wet than last year , although patchy . 
'It 's go to be a sort of topsy-turvy , or spasmodic , winter . Queensland will have light rain during June , with moderate fall in July , [ and ] probably get some reasonable fall on a finishing note in August , '' he say 
`` NSW will be look at light to moderate rain in June and some moderate to reasonably good fall for the balance of winter . 

SA grower to plant record crop 
South Australian grain grower be set to plant a record area of crop after a good start to the season . 
Authorities estimate planting of around 3.83 million hectare , with 70 per cent already in the ground . 
Primary Industries SA consultant Peter Fulwood say , with good condition and yield , the crop could be worth up to $ 1.1 billion . 
`` We 've have that earlier start , which have certainly encourage farmer , and the price of wheat have certainly increase , '' he say . 
`` I think principally it 's probably be the early start that have encourage farmer to get in and put in an extra paddock here and there . 

VFF back change to single desk 
The Victorian Farmers Federation ( VFF ) have join the grow number of organisation call for change to the single desk for wheat export . 
Under the VFF 's plan , AWB would be force to split to make the single desk more accountable . 
AWB International would retain it monopoly on export wheat from the national pool , but the domestic arm , AWB Limited , would lose any commercial influence over export . 
Grains Group president Ian Hastings be look for support from the peak Grains Council of Australia . 
`` The sort of thing that be in our discussion paper , in our model , be the sort of thing that be absolutely dear to all grower around Australia , '' he say . 

Qld leasehold agreement seal 
The Queensland Government and lobby group Agforce have after four year finally reach a new agreement for leasehold land , which be expect to provide more certainty for grazier . 
Some conservation group have argue that the maximum time for a lease should be 10 year . 
Brett De Hayr from Agforce say the Government have agree to 30 , 40 and 50 year tenure . 
`` The frame work be basically 30 year for lease deem to be in poor condition , 40 year for lease in good condition and the component that we think be actually most attractive in this be the ability for 50 year lease to be grant where people go over and above their duty of care , '' he say . 

Fleece sample could face phase-out 
Displaying fleece sample at wool auction could be a thing of the past under move to change the way the raw fibre be sell . 
The Australian Wool Testing Authority be develop an objective measurement selling system , which will provide more detailed description of wool instead . 
The authority 's Ian Ashburn say the trial be be drive by wool broker , but there be some buyer support as well . 
`` The main feedback have be quite positive from the broker . Like I say , we have be approach , because of our independence to undertake these activity , from broker and some buyer in the past six to 12 month , '' he say . 

Joint NT , WA pearl regulation agree 
The pearling industry will be regulate a one entity under a memorandum of understand sign between the Northern Territory and Western Australia . 
Most company operate across both jurisdiction , stretch from the Territory 's English Company Islands near Gove , to Exmouth in the Pilbara . 
Captain Christopher Cleveland of Arafura Pearls say the agreement provide a platform to streamline regulation . 
`` There be some company like ourselves , which do n't have any involvement in Western Australia , '' he say . 

Qld budget spend big on service 
Health , education and infrastructure dominate the Queensland Budget . 
The Treasurer say it be the big and high ever level of spending for those key area . 
For the farm sector , the focus be on the 'Blueprint for the Bush ' , a 10-year program for the region west of the Great Divide . 
This year see $ 150 million allocate for the plan . 
The Primary Industry Minister say his department 's budget have be boost by $ 11 million and he will be employ an extra 100 officer by Christmas . 
The Opposition dispute that that be the case and say there have in fact be a cut to the department of $ 28 million . 

NSW Budget rural transport funding disappoints 
Farmers in New South Wales say they be disappoint with a lack of money for rural rail and road in the state Budget . 
Posting a deficit of almost $ 700 million , the Government have increase spending for primary industry , natural resource and rural infrastructure . 
Jock Laurie from the New South Wales Farmers Association say it be a wasted opportunity . 

Mango grower warn of labour shortage 
Mango grower in the Northern Territory be warn of another labour shortage this harvest . 
Growers have tell a Senate inquiry this week that guest worker from the Pacific island should be allow into Australia to help fill shortfall . 
Darwin grower Peter Delis say the inquiry tell them no evidence of a labour shortage have be present so far . 
`` The industry be a bit perplexed by this because there have be plenty of people that have make representation since 1996 , where there be acknowledgment that there be a labour shortage issue in horticulture , '' he say . 
`` So the simple issue be absolutely , it 's just where we can source the people . 
`` Last year be one of the light year on record , even with the increased number in tree . 

Senate inquiry may consider Timor labour 
East Timor could join the list of potential Pacific nation to provide worker to Australia . 
Tasmanian Senator Guy Barnett say if the need for labour be demonstrate , the inquiry will be broaden to include country to Australia 's north . 
`` The term of reference include the Pacific and the Pacific island , and clearly have be in the Northern Territory there be obviously the view , that have be put to u , be that there should be consideration give to Timor and further north into Asia , '' he say . 

Educate young to become good grower , wine judge urge 
Turbulent time in the grape grow sector be not deter young people from plan a future in the wine industry . 
There have be a National Wine Schools Show in Adelaide this week , where student from around the country have showcased more than 70 wine and voice confidence in the future of the sector . 
Wine critic and head judge Philip White say it be important to educate young people on the current problem so they can deal with similar scenario when they take over the family vineyard in year to come . 
`` These kid live , if they 're in wine region , live in the face of the glut . They can see their grape , their dad 's grape , hang on the fence , they 're not get sell , '' he say . 
`` This be an essential thing for them to understand the other end of the cycle . 

Hopes Landcare deal will revive movement 
The first Landcare sister partnership have be establish , a the movement look at way to reinvent itself . 
The Tasmanian-based Tamar NRM and Victoria 's Woady Yaloak Catchment Group will share their knowledge , and member hope the link will give them more independence and clout on the national stage . 
Chairman of the Victorian group , Michael Rowe , believe other group will be watch the experiment . 
`` I hope so and I hope some of them will follow suit because Landcare seem to be stagnate in some area a little bit , '' he say . 

Big harvest , good price cheer cane grower 
New South Wales sugarcane grower have begin one of the big harvest the state have ever see . 
After a tough few year , grower and miller be report high yield , high sugar content and strong world price . 
Rick Beattie , from the New South Wales Sugar Milling Co-op , say the state 's three mill expect to crush 2.6 million tonne of cane . 
`` Early indication from the Broadwater season be good yield and really good sugar , which be fantastic , '' he say . 

Fuel price more urgent than nuclear power , say farmer 
The National Farmers Federation say the Federal Government need to urgently tackle high fuel price , ahead of develop nuclear power . 
It be support another government inquiry into alternative fuel , which will look at whether a commercial biofuel industry be viable . 
NFF president Peter Corish say many farm petrol and diesel bill have rise 70 per cent since 2004 , and urgent action be need to promote alternative fuel . 
`` There be real opportunity for a number of our agricultural industry and certainly our view be that both need to be focus on but probably the opportunity that exist from biofuels be more immediate than will come from the nuclear debate , '' he say . 
Meanwhile , ethanol production have be flag a a potential new industry for Australia 's big irrigation scheme . 
Consultants from Perth and Brazil be look at the viability of grow sugar cane in the second stage of the Ord River Irrigation Scheme , in Western Australia 's far north . 

Call for more climate research to maintain wheat production 
There be a warning today that wheat production could fall by 15 per cent and cost the nation $ 1 billion over the next 30 year unless the grain industry step up research into manage climate change . 
A study of five major grain grow area show a drop in production of between 5 per cent and 25 per cent , with short grow period and high threat from disease and pest a the country get warm and drier . 
Professor Peter Grace from the Institute of Sustainable Resources in Queensland , say farmer may need to look to new wheat variety and good use natural resource like water . 
`` Drought resistance be probably the number one area we need to get into in Australia , '' he say . 
`` We have a long history of scientist who have do a lot of work in traditional plant breeding in drought resistance and have be very successful , so we 're well position to meet what 's go to happen in the next 30 to 50 year . 
`` Global warming be here , that be a proven fact . Farmers play a role in that as well by move towards conservation tillage practice , so farmer be in the driver 's seat . '' 
Meanwhile , Western Australia 's grain handler and marketer the CBH Group be upbeat about the winter grow season , even though many area desperately need rain . 
CBH have release it first crop yield estimate for the year , with a ballpark figure of 11.6 million tonne . 
Operations manager David Fienberg say CBH 's prediction be largely on good summer sub-soil moisture reserve across broadacre region . 
`` What we do be , we try and collect a much on-ground intelligence in term of be really well set-up for those from the summer rain , '' he say . 
`` And there be fantastic sub-soil moisture there in the majority of the state . 

Tough season ahead for WA sheep producer 
Western Australian sheep producer be be urge to buckle up for a tough season . 
There be no green feed in the southern half of the state , apart from extreme low west and south coastal area , and no rain in sight . 
Livestock number at saleyards be rise a farmer destock bare paddock . 
Sheep management consultant Andrew Ritchie say grazier need to move soon . 
`` We have to take it on board mentally first that it be now a poor season and have be a poor season for at least two week , '' he say . 

Big turnout tip fo Farmfest 
Despite poor seasonal condition , consumer confidence be strong at one of Queensland 's big agricultural field day . 
Organisers of the three-day Farmfest near Toowoomba say they be on target for about 80,000 visitor , even though the region have have less than 20 millimetre of rain since the start of the year . 
Barry Harley say producer be still open their wallet . 
`` And although I do n't believe there 's still too many people rush in and buy a $ 200,000 tractor on the site , the order be very genuine and there be a tag on it when it rain , but some of the small item like quad bike and silo and bit and piece - huge sale have actually be record , '' he say . 

US beef trade with S Korea on hold 
US plan to resume it beef trade with South Korea be on hold over new concern about American abattoir . 
Exports be to begin this week , but official be concerned beef destine for South Korea will be process in the same plant a beef from foreign animal , or cattle over 30 month of age . 
Andrew Negline from Cargill Beef Australia say the delay will just create more uncertainty in the market . 
`` We know the US be come back in , from Australia 's point of view we need to see that re-entry rather than later to take the uncertainty out of the market , '' he say . 
`` Their buying habit have go on hold if you like and you can imagine there 's a lot of traffic between Korea and the US in anticipation of the market open up from the US . 
`` There have also be a lot of offer out of the US well below the Australian market price . '' 

Food origin labelling standard come into effect 
From today it be compulsory for retailer to identify the country of origin of fresh food . 
Fresh fruit , vegetable , nut and seafood will have to be clearly label . 
Mike Redmond from the Virginia Horticulture Centre in South Australia say the industry will now push for labelling of frozen , package and process food . 
`` Look it 's about give the consumer the right to choose whether they 're go to buy an Australian product and all the good thing that go with that like all our food safety standard which be some of the most rigorous in the world , and they get to choose , '' Mr Redmond say . 

Wood exporter dump bid for global softwood market 
After two year of planning , Australia 's old woodchip exporter have abandon it bid to enter the global softwood market . 
A glut of softwood be loom after an infestation of the North American timber beetle in Canada . 
Vince Phillips from South East Fibre Exports at Eden , in New South Wales , say world price have be force 20 per cent below Australian production cost . 

McGuigan vineyard plan concern SA grape grower 
Grape grower in South Australia 's Riverland be concern about plan by McGuigan Simeon Wines to develop a 400-hectare vineyard . 
The company want vine at Wentworth , in south-western New South Wales to be in full production by 2009-2010 . 
The news come just day after 160 grower be tell their contract with the winery will remain suspended for next harvest . 
Chris Byrne from the Riverland Wine Grape Growers Association say the type of development be detrimental to the whole industry . 
`` We have make the point that unless the industry with their help get right behind the sort of strategic planning that we be encourage and do something a an industry about rationalise , restructuring and support the grower that have build the industry , then that whole proposal be really counter productive to our interest , '' he say . 
There be a 10 per cent jump in the amount of wine export from Australia in the 12 month to the end of May , to a record 726 million litre . 
The Wine and Brandy Corporation say the value of export grow slightly to almost $ 2.8 billion , despite price drop 34 cent per litre . 

E Timor looter destroy rice , maize reserve 
Looters in the East Timor capital of Dili have destroy more than 40 tonne of rice and maize seed reserve . 
The seed normally support thousand of subsistence farmer across five district . 
The government have warn people not to eat the seed because it have be treat for pest and disease and to encourage rapid early growth . 
East Timorese Minister for Agriculture , Estanislau Da Silva , say more will urgently be need for next year 's crop . 
`` Several thousand - at least up to five to six district - especially subsistence farmer they will suffer if we do n't have those seed readily available ( by ) I would say no later than September because then we will use October to distribute it , '' the Minister say . 

Thieves target banana plantation 
Soaring banana price be make the fruit attractive to thief at plantation near Coffs Harbour , in New South Wales . 
Three theft have be report so far , with a shortage of fruit due to damage cause by cyclone Larry in north Queensland . 
Tony Heidrich from the Banana Growers Council say it be likely to be more than a one-man operation , give the size of the stolen bunch of banana . 
`` It 's possibly an under-reported crime . I think there 's a perception out there in the community that it 's a soft crime with the perception that nobody 's get hurt a a result of a crime , '' he say . 

Cooler change disrupts cow ' milk production 
A cold snap across south-eastern Australia be even affect the cow at Hamilton , in Tasmania 's Derwent Valley . 
With temperature plunge to minus three degree celsius , and even minus 5.8 degree celsius overnight on Tuesday , the dairy cow on Dave Jones ' farm have drop a litre-and-a-half of milk a day . 
He say frozen machinery be cause long delay in milking , disrupt the cow ' regular milking and pasture routine . 
`` For the last three or four morning we 've tarped the whole dairy in and we 've get a little bit of a heater in there which warm it up by about a degree , but for the last three morning we 've spend the first two to three hour defrost the machine and get all the electronics work , '' Mr Jones say . 

AWB seek Federal Court rule on document 
Wheat exporter AWB have return to the Federal Court today , ask it to decide which document before the oil-for-food inquiry be protect by legal professional privilege . 
Last month the Federal Court rule AWB 's apology document be not cover and could be make public . 
The court also rule that Commissioner Terence Cole have the power to decide whether other document before the inquiry , include AWB 's own internal investigation of the oil-for-food program , be protect . 

Tassie grower want high forward grain price 
Tasmanian grain grower be unhappy with forward contract for feed grain for the come harvest . 
Crosby Lyne from the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association say average wheat and barley feed grain price at $ 190 to $ 195 a tonne be not on parity with mainland price , even allow for freight . 
He say the island 's forward grain price should be high , give low world production and dry condition put pressure on yield . 
`` We believe Tasmanian grain grower be n't be offer enough for their grain for the come harvest , '' he say . 

Wine industry to solve it own oversupply problem 
The wine industry say it will not ask the Federal Government for a financial bail out and will try to solve the grape glut itself . 
Industry body , lead wine company and federal and state government be meet in Melbourne today to try to find a way through the oversupply problem embattle the industry . 
Stephen Strachan from the Winemakers Federation of Australia believe the sector can fix it own mess . 
`` I do n't think there 'll be any silver bullet and I do n't think we 'll come out this afternoon say we 've get a solution to get through this surplus next year , it 's just not go to happen , '' he say . 

Summit debate rural health plan 
A plan to train rural doctor a specialist be be debate at a health summit in the southern Queensland town of Chinchilla today . 
The Rural Doctors Association 's president , Dr Ross Maxwell , say there be still a massive shortage of doctor and an insufficient intake of student to meet demand . 
He be support a plan to train doctor to be specialist in rural area and have general knowledge of obstetrics , anaesthetic , Indigenous health and surgery . 

Aust urge to take more responsibility for uranium waste 
Australia have be tell it need to take more responsibility for the waste produce from export uranium . 
About 40 per cent of the world 's uranium stock can be find in Australia and it be ship to the US , Japan and Europe for use in nuclear power . 
A founder of Greenpeace but now one of the world 's main supporter of the nuclear industry , Dr Patrick Moore , say Australia should consider use nuclear power . 
But he say the nation must take more responsibility for deal with nuclear waste . 
`` I think you wave it goodbye at the dock and wash your hand of any responsibility for what go on in the world , '' he say . 

Water sale should be treat a capital gain , say Nationals 
Farmers and irrigators could be tax at a low rate for any water they sell under the National Water Initiative after lobby from the National party . 
Former Nationals leader John Anderson meet with the Prime Minister yesterday , argue water sell to the scheme should be treat a a capital gain rather than income , attract a low tax rate . 
Mr Anderson say tax the water at premium rate be unfair . 
`` This be about farmer feel that the Government be go to keep good faith with them , '' he say . 

Eastern state begin to offload stock 
We hear yesterday about WA grazier offload stock with the dry condition , 
and the trend be also start to appear in western New South Wales and the Victorian Mallee . 
About 8,000 ewe and wether be offer at a special sheep sale at Swan Hill yesterday . 
Livestock agent Cameron Mckay say many farmer in the region be supplementary feed their stock and desperately need rain . 
`` Western New South Wales probably have a good start than the Mallee but now with continue dry condition the feed that have germinate be dry up and the frosty condition it 's also not help grow condition at all , '' he say . 
There be a very slight recovery in wool price this week , with the benchmark eastern market indicator up one cent to 728 cent a kilogram clean . 

Scientists to test new bait chemical 
Experts say a new chemical to be test next week have the potential to change the way some of Australia 's pest animal be control . 
The Invasive Animal Cooperative Research Centre say the poison , PAP , be originally design by the US military , and can be use on wild dog , feral pig and fox . 
Research scientist Dr Ricky Spencer say the trial will test the antidote component of the chemical , which be something the current poison know a 1080 , do not have . 

No quick answer to cane toad , say scientist 
Scientists have be meet in Brisbane this week to work out how to beat the cane toad problem . 
More than 40 researcher have share their work at the national cane toad workshop , and hear evidence of how the toxic toad be adapt to it environment . 
Ideas throw up include bio-control method and repel device , and Dr Tony Robinson from the CSIRO say while there be some inspiring work be do , there 's still no magic answer . 
`` We 're talk five to seven year , I mean that 's the sort of range for any of those project , we ca n't offer any immediate solution to the cane toad problem , which be frustrate , '' he say . 

Quick grow kingfish trial under way in SA 
Under a project in South Australia , captive kingfish will be trick into double their growth rate , by have an extra long summer . 
Port Lincoln-based company Clean Seas will work with a Danish company to try to halve the time it take to grow a kingfish to restaurant size . 
Instead of be keep in sea cage , Marcus Stehr from Clean Seas say the fish will live in onshore tank at Arno Bay . 

Woolly cattle open small opportunity for hobby farmer 
Two cattle producer in New South Wales be try to downsize their cattle to produce a miniature breed which can also be shorn like a sheep . 
Brendan and Yolana Haverfield breed Galloway cow on their hobby farm near Sutton in the southern highland . 
The cow be between 100 and 120 centimetre high , and apart from be extremely docile , the couple say their hair be like cashmere wool . 
`` It 's a Scottish breed , from the Galloway area of Scotland , good for beef , they can be milk , also their hair can be spin like wool . 

Farmers fire up for Finke fun 
Pastoralists south of Alice Springs have a chance to forget about the lack of rain this weekend at the big event on their social calendar . 
The 31st Finke Desert Race involve hundred of off road vehicle and motorbike , tackle a track which start just south of the Alice , and end up in the small outback community . 
Billy Hayes from Deep Well Station say everyone look forward to the race a a chance to catch up with family and friend . 
`` You know there 's not too many pastoralists that I know south of Alice that do n't take the weekend off to come and watch the Finke Desert Race or , you know , a lot of them have get family or family member compete in it as well , '' he say . 

Loss of GPS signal cause problem for grain grower 
Farmers be experience major problem with their global positioning system ( GPS ) because two US military satellite have be take out of service . 
Many grain grower use GPS technology to help them sow crop in the most efficient way , pinpoint crop row to within centimetre . 
But the loss of signal be now cause major accuracy problem and drop-outs , particularly in the middle of the afternoon . 
Phil Harris from GPS-Ag in South Australia do not know when the problem will be fix . 
`` It 's unfortunate at the time that it be happen and of course there 's still a lot of farmer out there seed ... now there be a lot of farmer have commence on their spray program , '' he say . 

Childers farm test for cane smut 
There be fear that an exotic disease discover on a sugarcane farm in south-east Queensland could be the devastate cane smut . 
Queensland 's Department of Primary Industries have quarantine a property near Childers after suspect plant be discover late last week . 
Cane smut , which can stunt growth and cause production loss of between 20 and 30 per cent , be consider the high exotic disease risk for sugarcane in Australia . 
While the Canegrowers Organisation say the disease have not be confirm , general manager Ian Ballantyne say the industry be prepared . 
`` Canegrowers be member of a thing call Plant Health Australia and through Plant Health Australia we bring together BSES , state and federal government , ourselves , and other party who be interested and have an affect on disease incursion , '' he say . 
`` We 've learn a lot I think over the year from citrus canker and thing like the popia fruit fly and now we think it 's good to overreact early than under-react . '' 

Rain hit NSW crop area 
Cropping area in New South Wales have receive their first major rainfall for the season . 
Conditions take a turn for the good on the same day last year and while the rain be not a heavy this time , it be just a welcome . 
Cereal crop producer across inland New South Wales be face another bleak season , with no rainfall during autumn across the majority of the state . 
This change on Saturday . Most inland area receive between 10 and 30 millimetre , with the majority of the crop belt receive around the old inch mark . 
Many tractor have start up this morning , to get the winter crop in . 
Subsoil moisture level be still very low to non-existent and so crop will again be reliant on in crop rainfall . 
Michael Matthews from Young say the rain do bring hope . 

US lower wheat production forecast 
The US Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) have again lower it 2006 and 2007 wheat production forecast , at the same time a grain price soar . 
Production estimate now total just over 1.8 billion bushel , or more than 48 million tonne . 
Last month 's US wheat forecast be down 11 per cent from the previous marketing year . 
Now , USDA World Agriculture Outlook Board chairman Gerald Bange say continue dry condition have cut the 06/07 forecast by 14 per cent , and stock by nearly 25 per cent . 
`` And a a result of that , we be in fact , see a strong price , '' he say . 
`` The price outlook now call for about $ 3.90 at the midpoint which be up nearly 50 cent from the 2005-06 year and would , in fact , be the high price since the $ 4.30 that be record in 1996 , contribute to lower US wheat export , forecast off about 100 million bushel , at about 900 million bushel . 
The USDA report catch commodity trader in Australia offguard . 
Tony Smith from Plum Grove say no one be expect such significant change . 
`` Well , in the first two minute , the market react a expect , '' he say . 
`` The future exchange open up , the market go straight up and then within two minute everyone , include myself , be catch by surprise because they just fell in a heap . 

No bail-out package for grape grower 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have refuse to bail out the nation 's struggle grape grower , say the Government be not to blame for the current oversupply . 
Ahead of a national wine summit hold in Melbourne on Friday , industry group be look for partial compensation from the Government to help grower mothball or hibernate their vine . 
But Mark McKenzie from Winegrape Growers Australia say the proposal be not even put on the table , and it be a disappointing result . 
`` The Minister make it clear that it 's an industry issue the industry need to sort itself out , '' he say . 
`` Outside the framework of what 's currently available there be n't anything special put on the table other than additional funding to scope the nature of the issue to provide more information to grower to allow them to make those commercial decision for themselves go forward . '' 
In the west , many grape contract be come to an end , and John Griffiths from the WA Wine Industry Association say the situation be fragile . 
While warm climate grow area have already be hit hard , with fruit leave on the vine , the oversupply problem be expect to hit cool area over the next two year . 
Mr Griffiths say the real crunch for WA be yet to come . 
`` Even if the news itself be n't great it 's good that it 's clear . 
`` You 're either industry and your go to make some profit or your probably ought to get out. `` 

Telcos urge to express interest for bush broadband 
The Federal Government have call for expression of interest from telecommunication company who can provide broadband Internet service to regional area . 
The $ 1.1 billion Connect Australia package aim to improve service outside the capital city . 
Industry analyst Paul Budde say telco should not be compete for business , but allocate a region to ensure wide coverage . 
`` People in regional Australia should not have to pay more for that sort of service than people in metropolitan area , this be infrastructure this be not luxury , everybody need it , and therefore it have to be treat a such , '' he say . 

Rural Australians honour for Queen 's Birthday 
Rural Australians have be well represent in the Queen 's Birthday Honours list . 
A well-known grazier from north-west Queensland say he be surprise at be name a Member of the Order of Australia . 
Former National Party president Don Mcdonald from `` Devoncourt Station '' near Cloncurry have be recognise for his service to regional health , agriculture , infrastructure and politics . 
`` I 'm delighted to have receive it , I 'm just in total disbelief that this sort of thing would happen because I do n't see myself a have do anything more than so many other people who live in the bush do , you know , to help their community , '' he say . 
Fellow former Nationals president , Helen Dickie have also be name a Member of the Order of Australia . 
Being award a Medal in the Order of Australia have not silence Victorian dairy farmer Ann Jarvis in her criticism of the Federal Government 's user-pays high education policy . 
Mrs Jarvis be award for her service to education , the dairying industry , woman in agriculture and the community of the Kiewa Valley . 
She say the Federal Government have a moral obligation to put more money into tertiary education . 
`` I think that we 've force our rural child away from university in the last 10 year , '' she say . 
`` The cost to attend university be enormous . I dont ' believe that brain necessarily only belong to city people . I think there be a great deal of intellectual brain drain from country area because people ca n't afford to avail themselves of tertiary level education . '' 
Broken Hill Identity , `` Brushman of the Bush '' and well know former ABC TV outback adventurer Jack Absalom receive an Order of Australia for service to paint and charitable work . 
Winemakers be also feature prominently , with honour go to South Australia 's Brian Barry and the Hunter Valley 's Bruce Tyrrell , who believe the industry will turn around . 
`` Oh yeah it 's amazing you know , you go from be the darling to the devil , '' he say . 
`` The Australian wine industry be cop a heap of bad press at the moment , but behind that be still this phenomenol growth . 

Desert race come to an end 
Australia 's most challenging off-road race be come to an end at Alice Springs . 
Hundreds of competitor in the Finke Desert Race have pitch their buggy , car and motorbike at 450 kilometre of some of the tough terrain in the country . 
It be windy , freeze cold and extremely dusty at the 31st Finke Desert Race . 
Only a third of competitor usually complete the track , which be full of bulldust , desert oak tree to dodge and about 70 kilometre of woops which be like drive over thousand of volkswagons in a row . 
Already the winner in the buggy have make it home , first place go to father/son team Shannon and Ian Wrench from Warrnambool , Victoria . 

Ploughmen dig in at championship 
Twenty of Australia 's best plowman battle for first place at the weekend 's National Ploughing Championships in Tasmania . 
Pitting their technical precision against the clock , farmer also have to work in dense fog while compete at Cressy , in the state 's north . 
Two Victorians be the winner , Adrian Tilling for conventional ploughing , and David Smith for reversible ploughing , and both will represent Australia at the world title next year . 
Rhonda Smith from the World Plough Organisation say success all depend on the day . 
`` Ploughmen can plough good on one day and draw a good plot and then some plowman can plough under pressure , '' she say . 

Cane smut find on Qld property 
Authorities have confirm the discovery of the exotic disease sugar cane smut at a farm near Childers , in south-east Queensland . 
At the start of another cane crush , it be a massive blow to the sector , which have be enjoy good price . 
The infected property have be quarantine and wide surveillance be underway . 
Property owner Joe Russo , who be also the chairman of the Isis District Canegrowers , say it have be a horrible time . 
`` Not only myself , but the whole family , be quite devastate to hear the news , '' he say . 
`` There 's no doubt we 've all understand the disasterous effect smut can bring , but to have it record not only in your district , then to have it on your own property , be of a concern . '' 
The entire cane crop on the east coast will be inspect for the disease . 
Queensland have be one of only a few commercial grow region in the world without cane smut , which can cause major production loss . 
Eoin Wallis from research group BSES Limited say the situation be extremely serious , even though only one infect plant have be find . 
`` At the moment , because we have n't find anymore plant , we be not able to say whether this be a widespread infestation or simply quite local , '' he say . 

Water shortage threaten lettuce supply 
Production of Australian lettuce could drop by up to 60 per cent by Septelettuce shortagember because of a lack of water in storage outside Melbourne . 
Southern Rural Water have cut water allocation to the Bacchus Marsh and Werribee irrigation district to between zero and 5 per cent , leave grower without water , or use recycled waste water . 
One of Victoria 's big colour lettuce grower , Frank Ruffo , say the both domestic and export supply will be hit . 
`` We use all our water for grow lettuce , salad , '' he say . 
We supply on a national basis around Australia and we also supply overseas so that be go to ruin our export market , especially when we 've manage to take them off the American supplier . 

Results on mad cow disease research may take year 
Scientists say it could take year to work out whether there be a new strain of mad cow disease or whether the original virus have mutate . 
US researcher have confirm that two case of BSE in Texas and Alabama during the past year be a new variety of the disease , which be similar to others in Europe and Japan . 
Professor Colin Masters from Melbourne University say it be frustrate for agricultural industry which have to wait for the research before find out whether they can stop any further spread of the disease . 
`` So far they 're very rare and they 've only be find because of this massively increased surveillance , '' he say . 

Wheat grower call for continued government assistance 
With a new farm bill on the horizon in the United States , wheat grower there have join call for continued government assistance . 
The wheat industry be concern it have a shaky future , after figure show wheat 's portion of the national crop have fall 10 per cent since the 1980s . 
Grower organisation say the wheat industry be at a crossroad with little growth in export , low domestic consumption and loss of acre to other crop . 
As well , there be concern that wheat disease be affect farmer ' profit and there be little research be do on new wheat variety . 
But while the the industry be keen to encourage new research , it have emphasise it must make economic sense for farmer to want to plant wheat in the first place . 
According to the US department of agriculture , the wheat sector be face long term challenge to it profitability , but ask for increase subsidy from government be not the answer . 
The USDA say subsidy only artificially increase demand , rather than provide long term solution . 
The industry plan to hold a wheat summit later this year to try to work out how it can stay profitable and competitive in the international market . 
The Indian Government have call for tender to supply 2.2 million tonne of wheat , after a lack of interest in a 3 million tonne deal last month . 
Only 800,000 tonne be allocate from the original wheat tender , with two third expect to be fill by AWB . 

Livestock producer warn over feeding requirement 
The Western Australian Department of Agriculture be warn livestock producer to either reduce sheep number or pay close attention to feeding requirement . 
There be a severe lack of feed due to dry weather and stock death have be report because sheep be not get enough roughage . 
Veterinary officer Marnie Thomas say producer be feed their sheep lupins a an alternative feed source but they need great diversity to maintain condition . 
`` If you 've get stock that you can quit , I would definitely be quit them now because if this dry keep go , you 're go to be look at supplementary feeding for anywhere up to six week from the break of the season , right up to eight week , depend on what sort of pasture you 've get , '' she say . 

Study look at heat stress concern for helmet wearer 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) be study how heat stress might affect station worker force to wear helmet while rid horse . 
Graziers across northern Australia have raise concern that compulsory helmet wear for employee could increase body temperature and lead to heat stress and fatigue . 
With some station force the introduction of helmet a a safety measure , MLA 's Wayne Hall hop the research will lead to good helmet design . 

Cool dry season could mean early Top End mango 
Cooler than average weather this dry season in the Northern Territory could bring forward the mango harvest . 
Night time temperature across the Darwin rural area have be more than three degree cool than average this month . 
Flowering be under way across mango orchard of the Top End and extension officer Greg Owens say fruit could mature by mid September . 
`` The tree be pretty much set up for it from a very small harvest season last year , '' he say . 
`` They have good reserve from the tree and have that cold snap follow on from that rain seem to have trigger a lot of tree that be ready to go off . 

Farmers call for more help to for biodiesel production 
Farmers try to establish commercially viable biodiesel operation say the Federal Government need to do more to encourage development . 
Victorian farmer Josh Pearse , who have set up a plant at Donald , in the state 's west , say tax biodiesel at the same level a ordinary diesel be a disincentive to farmer make or use it . 
He say in the face of rise fuel cost , grain farmer particularly , have a great opportunity to start grow some of the fuel they need for their farm . 
`` There should be a few more incentive for people to actually get into the biodiesel industry , and even for some sort of tax benefit for farmer and for people to start use biodiesel , '' he say . 

Demand soar for softwood 
Australian softwood producer say they be experience their high level of demand for year , with more shipment of pine woodchips and steadily rise price . 
Growing demand from the Japanese paper industry be drive the export market growth , a the Japanese economy pick up and the consumption of paper and paper product increase . 
Phil Lloyd , from South Australian processor Auspine , say the last 12 month have see demand exceed supply . 

WA find nifty solution to cane toad menace 
A specially trained sniffer dog have be choose to hunt down cane toad at the border between Western Australia and the Northern Territory . 
Nifty , a two-year old female belgian malinois , will begin train immediately and start work in Kununurra from September . 
Gaye Mckay from WA 's Department of Conservation and Land Management say Nifty be part of an overall plan to keep cane toad out . 
`` Anything that can stop cane toad from enter WA be a worthwhile investment , '' she say . 

Rural worker at risk of cancer , report show 
A new report have find worker in rural industry like agriculture , forestry and mining be most at risk of develop cancer . 
The study by the Queensland Cancer Fund and the University of Sydney have find twice as many people a previously think be expose to cancer-causing substance at work , include pesticide , UV ray and dust . 
Gordon Gregory from the National Rural Health Alliance , say country worker face a double whammy , because a lack of medical care in the bush can severely reduce the chance of survival . 
`` Agriculture forestry and fishing be dangerous occupation - but normally we tend to think in term of accident , '' he say . 
`` Now we have get this report which frankly surprise me that it be also the cause of high rate of cancer . 

Snowy Hydro rethink development plan 
Snowy Hydro say it will be force to borrow heavily , now that it plan privatisation have be scrap but staff job be safe . 
The Federal Government scuttle plan to sell the power generator earlier this month . 
Managing director Terry Charlton say the sale would have give Snowy Hydro access to extra fund but the company now must rethink it development plan . 
`` We 're look at increase our borrowing , cut back on capital expenditure , cut back on other expenditure , hopefully be able to defer some expenditure on the scheme and substitute it with other growth opportunity , '' he say . 

Farmsafe maintain cancer risk minimise 
A farm safety group have defend the sector 's use and management of pesticide after a new report say people in agriculture be among the most at risk of develop cancer . 
The study by the Queensland Cancer Fund and the University of Sydney find twice as many people a previously think face cancer-causing substance at work , include pesticide , UV ray and dust . 
But Jamie Cupples from Queensland-based Farmsafe say risk have be greatly minimise because primary producer must go through chemical accreditation program . 
`` We have n't have the evidence that there 's a huge rate of cancer in the rural industry be cause by pesticide , '' he say . 

More sugar cane smut case under investigation 
Queensland authority be investigate possible new case of the fungal disease sugar cane smut . 
The disease , never before find in eastern Australia , have the potential to reduce cane yield by up to 30 per cent . 
It be confirm on a farm near Childers yesterday and further case be now suspect in another block on the same property . 
Chris Adriaansen , from Queensland 's Department of Primary Industries , will not say how many plant be affect , but denies smut be here to stay . 
`` No , no , absolutely not . It may be that we will find sequentially a number of small infestation over a period of you know it could be 12 month or even possibly longer , '' he say . 

Wool campaign target US market 
A test marketing campaign for wool have be launch to try to tap into the billion dollar clothe market in the United States . 
Saks of Fifth Avenue and retailer Dillards have be sign to try to educate the US consumer about the benefit of wool by market woollen trouser . 
The Woolmark company say there be a huge market to be gain from the $ 6 million investment . 
But consultant Graham Lean say the push in the US be misguide and the best way to increase grower return be to cut cost . 

Gold price fall puzzling 
Resource analyst be puzzle why the price of gold suffer a meltdown in New York trade overnight . 
The price of gold drop $ US44.50 an ounce , it big single day drop since 1991 . 
Hartley 's resource analyst Andrew Rowell can not explain the decline in gold and copper price . 
`` We 're not actually really sure a to why it 's such a big drop . It come off last night in New York , it start at the start of the day and keep go , '' he say . 
`` I guess we 're at a bit of a loss to see exactly the reason why it be so pronounced . '' 
In other commodity news , Australia 's export earnings from mineral resource fell $ 1 billion to $ 21 billion for the March quarter . 

Queenslander win NFF top job 
Queenslander David Crombie be the new president of the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) . 
Mr Crombie be the former chairman of Meat and Livestock Australia and former chairman of the Queensland Reds . 
Mr Crombie take over from outgo president , cotton grower Peter Corish . 
Victorian dairy farmer Allan Burgess be the other candidate for the peak farming group 's top job . 
The announcement be make in Canberra , where farmer from all over Australia and representative of a wide range of agricultural industry be meet , to draw up their strategy and priority for the come 12 month . 
Delegates from around Australia will today be debate the NFF 's stand on telecommunication and native vegetation . 
The telecommunication debate be timely give the NFF 's initial support for the Telstra plan to maintain a presence in rural Australia . 

Cold snap take toll on prawn operator 
The cold weather snap in the far north of Western Australia have take it toll on one aquaculture venture . 
Six hundred and sixty thousand prawn fingerling be fear dead after the spate of cold weather , include overnight low of eight degree . 
The marine prawn stop feeding at 20 degree and die at 13 degree , and owner Ian Crimp say there be not much movement in the tank . 
`` The water monitor show the temperature be down to 14.5 at the present time and it 's get pretty low and will be probably devastate for the prawn , '' he say . 
`` These little one might be in the great prawn house in the sky by now . Prawn heaven ! '' 
The rise cost of fuel be also threaten the seasonal harvest of banana prawn . 
Some trawler catch up to 10 tonne more when authority extend the season by a fortnight . 
But fisherman Ean Casey say the good catch be not enough to cover fuel , competition from cheap import prawn , and labour shortage . 
`` It 's be be a bad year than previous year even though we catch more , '' he say . 
`` This year we find it very hard to get people . We will probably look at bring in overseas labour ( from Indonesia ) . 

Summer fruit industry look for Govt support 
There be call for Federal Government support for the summer fruit industry follow signal the Taiwanese export market will not reopen in time for next year 's harvest . 
Exports be suspend late last year because of Taiwanese concern over a Queensland fruit fly . 
Summerfruit Australia 's Wayne Boucher fear if export to Taiwan resume , an extra 10,000 tonne of stone fruit could flood the domestic market . 
`` We 'd have to say that it be look highly unlikely that the work that be currently be do will be complete in time for u to get access to the Taiwanese market in time for this season , '' he say . 

New concern over NSW land clear law 
Landholders across New South Wales be be warn the Native Vegetation Act will have a far great impact than be originally think . 
The Act stop broadscale land clearing across the State . 
Gabrielle Holmes 's family have be prosecute twice under the Act , without conviction , for the removal of native invasive scrub . 

Pricey pup fetch new record 
What price would you pay for a good working dog ? 
Well you can expect to dig even deep after a Victorian breed kelpie fetch $ 5,400 over the weekend . 
Tasmanian farmer Neil Monks buy the 20-month-old pup sight unseen , and have no qualm at fork out an Australian record amount for the dog , Bagalla Mick . 
`` The way I look at it there 's no limit on the value of a good dog , '' he say . 

Weather take it toll on farmer 
Drought be worsen across south-eastern Australia . 
In the New South Wales Murray Valley region , 650 irrigators be now eligible for exceptional circumstance assistance until next January . 
In Victoria 's north-east , several farmer be shoot sheep , or sell stock below market price . 
Director of Hume Corridor Community Health , Wayne Weaire , be organise community barbeque in the region to support farmer : 
`` In the last drought we find that people if they become isolate from each other , if they simply work hard on farm or simply sat around wonder what they could do there be enormous amount of stress , '' he say . 
`` It just have an impact on the whole sense of well be on the family or the individual and we find last time the great lesson be how important it be to get out there and talk and get access to information and support from each other and from other agency . '' 
And cold weather be a problem too . 
Citrus grower in the Murray Valley and the Riverland be keep an eye out for frost damage . 
Industry expert claim that damage occur if the temperature drop below -2 overnight for long than four hour and that have already happen several time this winter . 
Some grower fear a repeat of 1982 when young tree die because of the extreme weather . 
Horticulturalist Steven Falivene say grower need to keep in contact with their citrus packer if they believe their fruit have be damage by frost . 
`` The real damage happen at say two week afterwards , '' he say . 

'Ultra virgin ' olive oil technique patent 
A Tasmanian olive grower have patent a new oil processing technique to produce what he call `` ultra virgin '' olive oil . 
Brian Hinson say olives grow in Tasmania 's cold climate produce high than world standard level of oleic acid , give an even healthy oil that should attract a premium . 
He say the secret to the high oil level be harvest early and take no more than 12 hour from pick to processing . 

Incoming farm leader want united voice for agriculture 
Building a united voice for agriculture and raise the community 's awareness of farm be just two of the aim for newly elect National Farmers Federation president , David Crombie . 
Mr Crombie , a businessman and former chairman of Meat and Livestock Australia , say the NFF 's role be to push the farming agenda with government , and emphasise the importance of agriculture to the economy . 
He say target fall membership amongst farm organisation be also critical . 
`` We ca n't afford division , we ca n't afford confuse message come out of agriculture , '' he say . 
`` Look , I 'd like to see all farm organisation member of NFF , but once again you have to create a valued proposition for those people , if a producer feel that there 's no value in be a member of an organisation then he wo n't join , quite simply . I think the challenge for farm organisation and for NFF be to create that value proposition . '' 
Outgoing President Peter Corish say the NFF 's big challenge be to deal with the weak financial position of the organisation 's farm body member . 

Re-structure talk on the card for peak seafood group 
The future of the nation 's peak seafood lobby group be uncertain , after director place the Australian Seafood Industry Council into voluntary receivership . 
A funding shortfall from voluntary levy and a lack of communication be be blame for it demise . 
Territory representative Rob Fish say the industry be expect to meet within four week to discuss re-structuring . 
`` I be not aware of many industry association that can work on voluntary contribution , '' he say . 
`` Most be levy across the industry , provide with constant budget , so you can budget across . Without that , I ca n't see it work myself . 

ALP figure back compulsory ethanol level in fuel 
The push to mandate ethanol level in petrol have a new ally - the ALP , with key Labor figure in New South Wales and Queensland say to be push for a 10 per cent biofuel component in fuel . 
A motion to that effect be unanimously pass at the NSW Labor conference last weekend.. 
The Labor move come a the federal National Party leadership head in the opposite direction , rule out any compulsory standard be adopt despite a good deal of backbench and National Party support for biofuels . 
The Government do n't support mandate of alternative fuel because we believe that would have a very likely if not certain market distortionary effect , '' say Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran . 
But NSW Labor MP for Bathurst , Gerard Martin , think the move to mandate ethanol level in fuel be a `` no brainer '' . 
He say pressure be be bring to bear on Kim Beazley and the Federal Opposition to get behind a clean , cheap renewable fuel . 

Drought tighten grip in NSW 
New drought figure have be release for New South Wales , paint a dire picture this winter . 
After the low May rainfall in 50 year , 89 per cent of the state be now officially drought declare , up from 62 per cent the previous month . 

Extending local content rule wo n't allay Nationals ' fear 
The chairman of the Federal Government 's policy committee on communication say the National party 's concern about cross-media ownership plan would not be allay by an offer to extend local content rule to regional radio . 
Communications Minister Helen Coonan tell the National Press Club she be consider force regional commercial station to air a set amount of local production . 
Nationals MP Paul Neville , who chair an inquiry into regional radio , say his party will continue to push for more concession on the controversial medium change . 

Smut-infected cane to be destroy 
More sugar cane smut have be find on a south-eastern Queensland cane farm . 
Authorities have confirm that up to three hectare of smut-infected cane have be find on the already quarantined property near Childers . 
With the industry biosecurity plan in full swing , decision on how to destroy affected cane and whether local sugar mill will be allow to crush have yet to be make . 
Joe Russo , who discover the disease on his family farm last week , say it be a hot spot of infection and crop will have to be destroy . 

Former wool industry leader back market campaign 
A test marketing campaign for wool in the United States be money well spent , accord to a former industry leader . 
Former senior executive of Wool International Bob Richardson have defend the joint venture with Saks of Fifth Avenue and retailer Dillards . 
He say the initial investment of just $ 6 million will be recoup by grower several time . 
Mr Richardson reject the assertion make by consultant Graham Lean that money spend on promotion have no impact on wool price . 
`` Absolutely I do . It be just so simplistic to think that just because there be not that correlation that therefore promotion of wool have not be successful in the past , '' he say . 

Lack of rain blame for reduction in grain export licence 
The lack of winter rain in Western Australia have force the state 's Grain Licensing Authority ( GLA ) to reduce the number of special export licence it issue this season . 
The GLA be responsible for grant special export licence for WA barley , lupin and canola , and have approve just four out of nine licence in the late round of application . 
Chairman Wayne Obst say with the seed window fast diminishing , seasonal condition be too risky to hand out further licence at this stage . 
`` We look at nine application and five be defer because of the season , some for canola and some for malt barley , because we feel at this stage it would be not appropriate to look at it , when the situation for canola be less than ordinary , '' he say . 

NZ farmer encourage to head to Tassie 
Representatives of a Tasmanian council be in New Zealand at the moment try to entice farmer to relocate from the land of the big white cloud to the Apple Isle . 
The Circular Head Council be distribute a booklet at this week 's New Zealand National Agricultural Field Days , give a regional and economic profile of the northern Tasmanian region . 
The council 's strategic project officer , Lisa Nelson , say compare to New Zealand , prime dairy land in Tasmania be almost half the price and any farmer who make the move will have no problem settling in . 
`` Tasmania 's very similar to New Zealand in a lot of respect , '' she say . 

Shorthorn bull sell for record Aust price 
A new record have be set at the National Shorthorn Show in Dubbo in New South Wales , with a shorthorn bull selling for $ 75,000 . 
The bull be exhibit by the Calrossy and Cowper Schools at Tamworth , and buy by John Nitschke from Hahndorf in South Australia . 
Auctioneer Mike Wilson think Nero 62K Zee Top , a he be call , may have even go one good than set a record Australian shorthorn price . 
`` I think it 's a world record , I know there be a bull in Canada call Signature who make about $ US37,000 and I think $ 75,000 yesterday be a world record price , '' he say . 

Phantom cattle prompt audit of livestock ID system 
The Federal Government have order an independent audit of Australia 's national livestock identification system . 
The system allow Meat and Livestock Australia to electronically trace cattle from birth to slaughter use ear and rumen tag , but it have be controversial since it inception 12 month ago . 
The Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , say he have order the audit after criticism from the Australian Beef Association ( ABA ) , which claim there be 11 million 'phantom ' cattle on the database that do not exist . 
But the minister have warn the ABA against tarnish the beef industry 's reputation . 
`` Such criticism can potentially harm the industry , '' he say . 

Report at odds with Govt over option for Murray 
A draft report by the Productivity Commission , design to canvas option to re-invigorate the Murray River have find that engineering project be unlikely to save enough water . 
The study find the best solution be for government to buy back water for environmental flow . 
But Federal Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , reject the idea of government buy water through licence , allocation or option . 
Bernie Wonder , from the Productivity Commission , say science and engineering be not enough to address the shortfall in the Murray River of some 500 gigalitres . 
`` We do need to go a bit far in term of find the quantity of water that have be identify and if we look only to those infrastructure solution and that be go to be a very expensive way to go , '' he say . 

AWB exec quit 
Two more executive have resign from wheat exporter AWB . 
Both men be closely connect to the company 's oil for food dealing with Iraq . 
Michael Long , currently head of international sale , be in charge of the Middle East desk at the wheat exporter during the oil for food program , and have give evidence to the Cole Inquiry about trading arrangement at that time . 
AWB be embarrass when photo of Mr Long and former chairman Trevor Flugge , appear in the medium show the men carry gun on a tour of Iraq . 
Charles Stott , currently in charge of Landmark , also appear at the inquiry and repeatedly deny any knowledge of kickback payment . 

Budget not supportive of processor , say farmer association 
Tasmanian farmer say last night 's state Budget do not do enough to support processor . 
Although it describe the Budget a farmer friendly , the Farmers and Graziers Association say processor need relief from payroll and land tax . 
Association executive officer Greg Bradfield say processor of dairy , meat and vegetable be farmer ' first-end customer and deserve more support . 
`` It 's very important that they 're competitive because they 're under a lot of competitive pressure from interstate and overseas so we want to make sure that the whole value chain be competitive so that farmer can get the most out of that value chain a possible , '' he say . 

Minister play down prospect of banana import 
Banana grower and the Federal Agriculture Minister have reject medium report that Australians will be eat import banana within month . 
While there have be call for import , because of the high price of banana after Cyclone Larry destroy the Queensland crop , the Government be stand by local grower . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say an import risk asssessment be currently underway , but previous assessment have rule out import . 
`` We will not be in any way susceptible to the temptation to bring in banana a a short-term risk , '' he say . 
`` We know the damage that that could cause to our industry , which would be even more devastating than Cyclone Larry 's effect . '' 

Cowra meatworks dispute settle 
An industrial dispute at a meatworks in New South Wales , which gain national attention , have be settle . 
The Cowra abattoir dismiss a number of employee , offer their job back at a much low pay rate , under the new industrial relation law . 
Under political pressure , the company reinstate the employee under their previous award , while pay negotiation take place . 
State Meatworkers Union secretary , Charlie Donzow , say while some worker will receive less money , the pay be much high than the dismissed worker have be offer . 
`` The area where they wo n't gain a much be when the company go into level of production over and above the minimum they put in place now , '' he say . 

More smut find in Qld cane 
Yet more sugarcane smut have be find in south-east Queensland , force the Isis Mill to postpone the start of it crush . 
The mill be due to start operating on Monday but yesterday , authority tell a grower ' meeting that delay the crush would give surveillance team a good chance to determine how widespread the smut problem be . 

Mulesing alternative available from 2007 : AWI 
Two alternative to mulesing will be available for farmer by 2007 and 2008 respectively , beat the 2010 deadline set between wool grower and animal right group PETA . 
Wool Research body Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) have it trial set back earlier this year when the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service reject a key product , collagenase a a biosecurity threat . 
But head of blowfly control at AWI , Jules Dorrian , say a new product , produce similar result , have receive the all clear . 

Retrenched Beaconsfield gold miner urge to head west 
Retrenched miner from Tasmania 's Beaconsfield gold mine be be lure to Western Australia with the promise of good job and a secure lifestyle . 
Fifty-two worker be make redundant after the April rock fall that kill one miner and trap two others . 
Western Australian Mines Minister John Bowler say his government have set up a special migration service to assist miner want to relocate to the booming resource state . 
`` We 've get heap of job over here , wonderful lifestyle , great to raise your family , '' he say . 
`` We 're just say to those worker at Beaconsfield if you have n't get a job and you 've get a young family and you want to start anew , Western Australia be a great place to be . 

Crop grower desperate for rain 
The need for rain across north-west Victoria 's grainbelt be now desperate . 
A run of severe frost this week have deplete moisture level far . 
Department of Primary Industries agronomist Rob Sonogan say about 80 per cent of the Mallee 's crop be sow and most have germinate . 
But he say without rain since the May break , many have fail to develop secondary root system . 
`` I 've actually sight a couple of situation , very small area in paddock where the crop have actually die , '' he say . 

Snow cause problem for NZ farmer 
This week 's storm on New Zealand 's South Island , which have dump more than 60 centimetre of snow , have cause management problem for farmer . 
Helicopters be deliver emergency supply to those in more remote community , include fodder for farm animal . 
President of the Mid-Canterbury Federated Farmers Rupert Curd say power be out on the Canterbury Plains and electric fence on dairy farm be on the blink . 

GM cotton row heat up 
Debate over genetically-modified ( GM ) cotton in northern Australia be heat up , with two biotechnology company apply to the Commonwealth regulator for licence . 
The Office of the Gene Technology Regulator ( OGTR ) reject a similar proposal four year ago , which mean GM cotton can not be grow commercially in the Australian tropic . 
Environmental group say any new GM cotton could become establish a a tropical weed . 
But Ord River farmer Rob Boshammer say it be unfair that the north be miss out on the new technology . 
`` I think it be a very dangerous situation where part of the country can be allow to use technology and other part not , '' he say . 
`` It seem totally unfair to me if you live one side of the 26th parallel you can grow GM cotton , if you live a metre the other side of the 26th parallel you ca n't . It seem to put an economic impost on u . '' 

Farmers view seek about saleyards sale 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) be seek farmer view about the proposed sale of two Victorian saleyards . 
The Victorian Livestock Exchange want to buy yard at Korumburra and Sale but already own many saleyards in the district . 
The ACCC be investigate whether the acquisition will limit competition from other saleyard operator . 
And some farmer fear it could lead to the closure of the Korumburra saleyards . 

Rodeo nomination sky-rocket 
Hundreds of spectator and competitor be expect to descend on the historic Top End town of Pine Creek tomorrow . 
After a three year hiatus , the rodeo be back . 
The town be also buzz with the prospect of new gold and iron ore mine open . 
School teacher and rodeo competitor Mary-Ellen Willis say the popularity of the event be grow across the Northern Territory . 
`` Last year there be a low number of competitor . This year it 's just sky-rocketing . We have over 130 nomination so far , '' she say . 

World Cup rivalry break out at abattoir 
World Cup fever have break out at an abattoir in north Queensland . 
The heckling have start at Mackay 's Borthwicks abattoir a Monday morning 's soccer game between Australia and Brazil draw nearer . 
Borthwicks currently employ 72 Brazilian meat worker who be passionate football fan and the battle line have be draw . 
`` The Brazilians be very cocky , very confident , they think they 're go to win easily , so we 're give it back to them , '' one of the worker say . 
`` A lot of them , they think thing with Brazil will be the same a it be with Japan . It 's go to be a hard match , '' say another . 

Specific funding for regional health care propose 
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile have propose that Commonwealth fund for health care to the state be conditional on part of it be specifically allocate to regional area . 
Mr Vaile say the state of rural cancer and obstetrics service at the moment be unacceptable . 
He say a change in the funding formula would force state and territory to spend more money on rural hospital in their next funding agreement , start in 2008 . 
`` The Commonwealth Government have the responsibility to ensure that the taxpayer dollar that we be spend on behalf of the taxpayer of Australia be spend in the most equitable way , '' he say . 

Ag Census expect to show increase in farm number 
The country 's big collection of agricultural information be expect to show an increase in the number of farm , despite the drought . 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics be ask 190,000 primary producer for production figure and stock number for the 2006 Agricultural Census . 
The last census , five year ago , identify 130,000 genuine farm business operate in Australia . 
But the bureau 's Allan Nicholls be expect an extra 30,000 small farm to participate this time . 
`` They 've certainly be there all along but they 've be quite small and we have n't be able to pick them up through our normal channel , '' he say . 

Elders seal deal to export beef cattle to Russia 
A deal to ship Australian breeding beef cattle to Russia have be sign by pastoral company Elders . 
The first shipment of 3,500 cattle be due to leave Australia in July from Portland in Victoria and Fremantle in Western Australia , eventually unload in Vladivostok , so they can acclimatise before the Northern Hemisphere winter . 
The plan be to then increase shipment until about 50,000 Australian cow a year be send to Russia . 

More sugar cane smut find in south-east Qld 
Surveillance work over the weekend have uncover more sugar cane smut in south-east Queensland . 
The exotic fungal disease that stunt sugar cane have now be find on at least six more property near Childers . 
Unlike the first few identify hot spot , the late property to be confirm quarantined and 'struck ' by sugar cane smut be not from the same farm but they be within a few kilometre of the initial discovery . 
Surveillance work be be step up throughout the region and the Isis sugar mill have postpone the start of it crush until next week . 
Nearby Bundaberg Sugar have put it harvesting on hold , just for the day , to enable it grower to meet and learn more about the disease . 

Retrenched Beaconsfield miner yet to find job 
Retrenched miner from the Beaconsfield Gold mine in Tasmania say job offer be not exactly pour in . 
Just last week the Western Australian Government be talk up opportunity to try to lure experienced underground operator from Beaconsfield . 
But Jerry Kahmann say he have be apply for job since the Beaconsfield rock fall two month ago . 
He say despite the $ 8 million Federal Government aid package , he and his mate have be leave to their own device to find new work and he have not yet be offer anything outside Tasmania . 
`` We 're all hearing that there 's a great big shortage of skilled miner on the mainland , '' he say . 
`` Maybe a position in Cobar , there 's another position up in Cannington , Queensland , Bendigo . 
`` Got in four application up in Olympic Dam with BHP Billiton themselves , also I 've try to get in with the contractor up there . 

New import rule bring India into line with international standard 
India 's Government have agree to new rule for wheat import , a the country struggle to fill a multi-million tonne tender . 
Only two company , include Australia 's AWB , put forward successful bid in the last round . 
India be hop it new requirement , which bring it in line with international standard , will attract more interest . 

Farmers urge to get involve in carbon trading scheme debate 
A report commission by the National Farmers Federation say farmer should push to have tree on their property include in carbon trading scheme . 
It say scheme be draw up by state and territory be likely to have an impact on the cost of power use by farmer but this could be offset by sell carbon credit from farm forestry . 
The report 's author , Brett Janissen from the Allen Consulting Group , say with a New South Wales scheme already establish , farmer need to get involve in the debate now . 
`` It 's not completely clear at this point that the system that state be design will actually countenance forest sink , '' he say . 
`` It 's very likely but my advice to the farmer be to throw their weight behind that to push that over the line . 

Melbourne wool auction room lease good news for buyer 
An offer by independent wool broker to take up the lease of Melbourne 's auction room have gain the support of buyer . 
The Australian Wool Exchange announce last month it be give up the lease of the Brooklyn wool selling centre . 
Peter Morgan , from the Australian Council of Wool Exporters , say the interest of independent broker be good news for buyer . 
`` We be quite worry at first but we 're delight that the independent broker have be able to react as quickly a they have and in the manner that they have , '' he say . 
`` What it will mean that it ensure the ongoing of sale here which be the most convenient site for buyer because they 've all get , nearly a I say , nearly all get office here . '' 

Mashes committee wind up 
Landholders in the Macquarie Marshes of central western New South Wales have be force to disband their local management committee because of ongoing drought and a lack of funding . 
Scientists say the marsh be the large nesting site in Australia for waterbird like egret , ibis and heron but over the last four year it have be so dry the bird have be unable to nest . 
Sue Jones , from the now defunct management committee , say it be a struggle to survive . 
`` With drought and reduced flow in the river , landholder just can not keep go , '' she say . 
`` They need to at the moment put their time and resource into their own enterprise just to keep themselves afloat . 

Irrigators donate water to die red gum 
Irrigators in north-west Victoria have donate a record amount of water to save stress and die river red gum . 
It be the second year the Mallee Catchment Management Authority ( CMA ) have coordinate the project . 
This year 1.7 gigalitres of water have be donate , enable seven site along the Murray River to receive environmental flow . 
CMA chief executive Jenny Collins say it be an amazing response consider the economic downturn face local horticulture . 
`` They have really show that they care about the environment by donate their water in this sort of fairly severe situation for them , '' she say . 

Farmers may have to customise product 
Farmers be be urge to sell the health benefit of their product if they want to get ahead in an increasingly competitive market . 
A conference in Melbourne , look at the future of food , have be tell consumer will pay more for produce that offer add benefit like high calcium or antioxidant . 
Dairy researcher Peter Hobman say it be not unthinkable that farmer will have cow produce specific healthy type of milk . 
`` There be certainly the potential for individual dairy farm or collection of dairy farm to produce milk that be customise for an end use , '' he say . 

US sugar quota change moot 
The US sugar quota program have long be a source of frustration for Australian producer and exporter . 
But change may be in store . 
With full implementation of the North American free tree agreement by 2008 , US Agriculture Under-Secretary JB Penn say a flood of Mexican sugar could force change . 
`` The border , be completely open in 2008 , will mean that we will have to modify the program in some way  
we ca n't continue to operate a supply-control program if you ca n't control the supply , '' he say . 

Abrolhos Islands able to handle day tourist , say researcher 
The beautiful Abrolhos Islands off the coast of Western Australia be say to be one of the country 's best kept secret . 
They be dot with bright beach shack that rock lobster fisherman and their family live in for three month of fishing . 
There have be increase concern that the island be a secret no longer and too many visitor be wreck the biodiversity . 
But after study the problem , university PhD student Emily Stoddard say there be still a place for tourist . 
`` I think that the island certainly could handle much more day visitation of the type where the air charter flight bring in people for the day , take them for a swim and a snorkel , have a picnic , go for a walk , '' she say . 

Grim outlook for grain production 
The continue drought have worsen Australia 's outlook for grain production . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) have just downgrade it forecast for this season 's crop yield , by 11 per cent , since it last forecast in February . 
ABARE say the area be sow to wheat , barley and canola have also fall 6 per cent . 
But the bureau 's John Hogan say while planting be down in most state , the outlook be still well this winter than last . 
`` Last year we actually release our crop report a little bit earlier than this , and be a bit below what we 're say now , '' he say . 

AWB in bid to stop inquiry access oil-for-food document 
Wheat exporter AWB be back in the Federal Court today , try to stop the inquiry from use document relate to the company 's own investigation of the oil-for-food dealing . 
AWB have ask the Federal Court to permanently block Commissioner Cole from access some 2,000 document cover by legal professional privilege , include the company 's own 18-month internal investigation into it part in the oil for food program . 
Recent change to the Royal Commissions Act now give Commissioner Cole the power to examine the document , and decide if the privilege claim be valid . 
Although the Federal Court be set to rule on the privilege status of the document in July , today 's action from AWB be to try to stop the Cole Inquiry access document now . 

Citrus canker report due out today 
The Senate Rural Committee will table it report on central Queensland 's citrus canker outbreak this afternoon . 
The outbreak of the disease on Evergreen farm near Emerald lead to the destruction of all citrus in the region - about 500,000 tree in all . 

Demand keep beef price up 
Global beef price be tip to remain solid , with strong demand for Australian beef and live cattle export . 
The US drought , and lacklustre US export because of mad cow disease , should underpin this bouyant demand for several month , at least . 
Steve Kay , the editor of US Cattle Buyers Weekly , say the American drought be slow production , but the big single influence be still the inability of the US to export to Japan and Korea . 

Wineries urge to dump excess wine 
The country 's peak wine grape grower organisation have call on winery to dump excess wine to ease the current oversupply . 
Mark Mckenzie , from Wine Grape Growers Australia , say winery should help out grower by throw out large volume of old , poor quality wine . 
He say winery should also consider mothball their own vineyard and buy from individual grower instead . 
`` There be some winery unfortunately who want to walk away from the issue and say it 's not our problem , it 's grower 's problem . But they be still significant producer , '' he say . 
`` They be still part of a system and obviously they be very largely responsible for oversupply by give very strong market signal over many year for grower to plant . '' 
Meanwhile , the Australian table grape industry say it will continue it battle to try to export to China . 
A delegation have spend the past fortnight meeting with quarantine officals and look at the Chinese table grape market . 
Australia have never have formal access to China but our fruit use to be sent via Hong Kong . 
Australian Table Grape Association chief executive , Jeff Scott , say he will encourage the Federal Government to talk with Chinese Government official . 
`` They be very concerned about some of Australia 's pest and disease in particular fruit fly but we 've do a lot of work on fruit fly in the sense if we do cold disinfestation treatment it will kill all fruit fly , '' he say . 

More wool processing go offshore 
The shipment of the Australian wool processing industry to Asia continue to gather pace . 
Elders have announce it will start fit out it new Chinese factory with equipment from it former Geelong plant in the next few week . 
However , the company still have not make a decision on what it will do with equipment from it Parkes plant , in New South Wales . 
Will McEwin , the general manager for Elders in China , say the former Geelong plant should be in full operation by early next year . 
`` It will be effectively what Geelong be , which be scour as well a combing , right the way through to top and then we also have a link into the large Nanchang group which be our partner in China and they go right the way through to suit making , '' he say . 

Dairy farmer get animal welfare information kit 
Dairy farmer around Australia be be send kit in the mail , contain information about animal welfare practice . 
The kit , from Australian Dairy Farmers Limited , aim to inform the wider community , rather than the farmer , about the industry 's standard . 
Wes Judd , from Australian Dairy Farmers , say it help dairy farmer stand up against critic in the community . 
`` We feel we have a huge resource in our producer around Australia and we want to give them the information , '' he say . 

Banana price have flow on effect 
The high price of banana have also push up the price of apple . 
There be increase supermarket demand for apple after Cyclone Larry destroy about 90 per cent Queensland banana crop . 
Peter Darley , from Apple and Pear New South Wales , say price be now the high for several year , and in some place be up by 40 per cent on last year . 
But he say there be also competition from mandarin . 
`` There be quite a steady demand for apple this year . Prices be reasonable . There be always go to be shelf space there a the banana be quite expensive and they would be stock very , very few banana , '' he say . 
`` But I think also there be a preference to citrus as well . Children have get a preference for mandarin because they be easy to peel , whereas these day kid seem to want a sliced apple and that be very difficult to put in a lunchbox . '' 

Insurance 
Meanwhile , the banana industry want to set up it own crop insurance scheme . 
The industry on the east coast have not have any form of crop insurance for six year , after finance company stop offer it , due to weather risk . 
The Australian Banana Growers Council say it have cost producer $ 60 million to get back on track after Cyclone Larry . 
The council 's Tony Heidrich say a cost-sharing insurance scheme between grower and the Federal Government would help . 

Extention of ag census to small farm welcome 
The decision to include more of Australia 's small farm in this year 's agricultural census have be welcome by authority in coastal New South Wales . 
Australian Bureau of Statistic 's survey be in the mail this week , include 30,000 to hobby farm that generate as little a $ 5,000 a year . 
John Williams , from the New South Wales Primary Industries Department , say it will give the first truly accurate account of coastal farm production . 

WA take fight to 'cane toad with wing ' 
Western Australia be step up it fight against the destructive pest bird the starling . 
The State Government have allocate an extra $ 2 million towards reduce starling population in the state 's south . 
Agriculture Minister Kim Chance say starling be every bit as unwelcome a the cane toad threaten the north of WA . 
`` I think cane toad with wing be a very apt description , '' he say . 

Paper maker add new zoo poo to roo poo 
After have worldwide success with a paper make from kangaroo poo , a company in north-western Tasmania have sign up with Sydney 's Taronga Zoo to make use of it elephant waste . 
Creative Paper will make a range of stationary , for sale in the zoo 's gift shop . 
The company 's Joanna Gair say the first elephant dung delivery be in a fine paper-making state by the time it arrive in the post . 
`` It have be in transit for just over a week so it be fairly ripe by the time that we 'd receive it , '' she say . 

Senate committee change criticise 
The Federal Opposition say the Government 's move to cut the number of Senate committee from 16 to 10 be partly design to silence `` maverick '' rural MPs . 
Labor and Greens senator say the Government want to stop committee deal with contentious rural issue like the AWB oil-for-food scandal , mismanagement at Australian Wool Innovation , citrus canker , the Snowy Hydro sale and Telstra service in the bush . 
Liberal Senator Jeannie Ferris , from the Rural and Regional Affairs Committee , deny the change will not stop scrutiny of rural issue . 
`` All those significant inquiry - AWB , AWI , any change to the Wheat Marketing Act , the question of apple come in from New Zealand - they have all be do by the Legislation Committee , which remain , '' she say . 

No AWB bid for Indian wheat contract 
Eight international company be compete for the late $ 2.2 million tonne tender of wheat to India , but Australia 's AWB be not amongst them . 
The wheat exporter be work through another two deal to India worth a million tonne . 
Canada and Europe be expect to be the main supplier for the new tender . 

Court ruling delay Cole inquiry finding 
The Cole inquiry into wheat exporter AWB be now not expect to deliver it finding until September or October . 
AWB 's Federal Court action over privileged document be the reason for the delay . 
Although AWB lose it fight to keep the `` apology '' document confidential , it have keep fight to keep some 2000 other document from public scrutiny . 
Earlier this month the wheat exporter launch legal action to get the Federal Court to decide the privilege status of the document , include those of it own internal inquiry into oil-for-food dealing . 
Yesterday 's hearing in the Federal Court rule AWB have the right to get the court to decide the legal status of the document , because their case precede the increased power of Commissioner Cole . 

China agree iron ore price rise 
China 's steel mill have give into pressure to settle on a 19 per cent increase in iron ore price in negotiation with Australian producer . 
Negotiations break down in April , with China refuse to pay high price again , after hike of more than 70 per cent last year . 

Citrus canker report recommend AQIS change 
A Senate report into the Queensland citrus canker outbreak have recommend the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) respond to allegation of breach of quarantine in few than three work day . 
The five recommendation also include police train for some AQIS staff and an overhaul of the National Management Group for pest incursion . 
The Senate rural and regional affair committee find citrus canker have destroy 500,000 tree around Emerald in Central Queensland , and cost the region $ 70 million . 
Managing director of 2PH farm , John Pressler , lose more than 250,000 tree to canker , but say he be not surprised no-one be charge over the outbreak . 
`` It 's really only subsequent to the Senate inquiry that the investigator actually revisit the whole scene , '' he say . 
`` By this time , a whole lot of evidence and information be miss , so it 's not surprising , it 's just another indictment against the way AQIS perform in this entire charade . '' 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say he will carefully consider the finding of the Senate report , and believe at least two of the recommendation make good sense . 
He have defend AQIS against criticism that it be too slow to investigate report of illegal import of citrus budwood . 
`` I do n't agree with the criticism of AQIS . These investigation be conduct professionally and thoroughly , '' he say . 

Mining bursary offer to WA student 
The Federal Government have establish a $ 500 mining career bursary , to encourage student to take up career in the mining industry . 
The cash be on offer to 30 year 10 student who choose to take on the challenging math and science subject that be pre-requisites for entry into mining course at Western Australian university . 
Eric Lindsay , from Curtin University 's school of mine , say he hop the student will eventually help ease Western Australia 's labour shortage . 

Meat industry concern over skilled worker visa delay 
The Australian Meat Industry Council will meet the Federal Immigration and Agriculture minister this week to try to sort out problem with the skilled worker visa program . 
Currently , the Immigration Department be not processing application for skilled worker under the 457 visa program because of concern some employer be breeching the visa condition . 
Australian Meat Industry Council chief executive , Kevin Cottrell , say delay in process visa application for overseas meat worker be create a nightmare for the industry . 

Endangered cockatoo could scuttle pulp mill 
Developers of a propose $ 650 million pulp mill at Penola in South Australia fear six dead tree will scuttle their project . 
The river red gum be potential breeding site for the endanger red-tailed black cockatoo . 
The Federal Department of Environment and Heritage have declare the project will have a significant impact on the bird , and refer the matter to the Minister , Ian Campbell , for a final decision . 
Project manager John Roche say his Protavia company be very disappointed with the decision . 

Qld Uniting Church leader speak out against propose dam 
A religious leader have speak out against a propose dam on south-east Queensland 's Mary River . 
Up to 900 property along the Mary River will be flood , force many farmer and home-owners off their land . 
The Queensland Government say drilling have find bedrock , mean the site be suitable for a dam . 
The Moderator of the Uniting Church in Queensland , Dr David Pittman , say the local community be not consult before the project be announce . 
`` The people in the Mary Valley at the present time be experience a mix of dismay , of shock , of confusion and of anger , '' he say . 

Blue mussel farm set to become Australia 's large 
Within five year , South Australia 's Wallaroo Blue mussel farm will be the large in the country . 
The business be spend $ 4.5 million develop it 200 hectare lease in the Spencer Gulf . 
New Zealand company Flinders Seafood aim to supply 2,000 tonne a year of blue mussel to the fresh seafood market . 
Company director Bruce Koller say a major part of the expansion will be market mussel to Australian consumer . 
`` In New Zealand we eat about two and a quarter kilogram of mussel per head per year and in Australia it 's about one tenth of that , '' he say . 

Mango industry to target young family 
Research have reveal mango lover be an age population , with more than 60 per cent of consumer age over 40 . 
The expand mango industry plan to step up it campaign to target young family , particularly in the cooler southern climate . 
Trevor Dunmore from the Australian Mango Industry Association say young people need to be taught how to eat mango easily . 
`` Young people be often busy like all of u and often do n't have time and want something quick and fast , and that 's why you see fast food restaurant become so popular , '' he say . 
`` Traditionally mango have be see a messy to eat , something you have to actually cut and prepare and it take time . 

Garden club member take up fruit fly fight 
Gardeners near Victoria 's Goulburn Valley region be take up the fight against Queensland fruit fly . 
Recent outbreak in southern New South Wales and Shepparton in Victoria have spur the Garden Club at Howlong , on the Murray River , into coordinate bait program , and dispose of rotten fruit . 
Howlong Garden Club member say they be extremely disappointed with this year 's crop . 
`` We have a nectarine tree this year that be just beautiful and I think I 'll get in before these little bugger and I 'll pick them a bit earlier , '' one member say . 
`` I pick them all , take them inside and cut one and it be just full of maggot , it be just terrible . '' 

Anti-mulesing campaigner protest at soccer World Cup 
Animal right protester have take their campaign against mulesing Australian sheep to the soccer World Cup in Germany . 

Vegie export drop 
Vegetable export drop $ 30 million in the last ten month , a Asian market overlook fresh Australian produce in favour of cheap good . 
At the same time , import of fresh and frozen vegies increase by 6 per cent , particularly frozen potato from the Netherlands and Belgium . 
Chief economist at Ausveg , Ian James , say the big threat to Australian export be from China . 
`` The Chinese threat be more one in term of them compete with Australia in traditional Asian market , rather than Chinese import , if you like , come into Australia , '' he say . 

Volunteers pitch in to help out bushfire-affected farmer 
A massive working bee be under way in southern New South Wales to help farmer burn out on New Year 's Day . 
The bushfire blacken 25,000 hectare of farm country near Junee . 
People from all walk of life have pitch in to repair the damage . 
The fire destroy 1,500 kilometre of fencing and six month on much of that still need to be replace . 
There have be no substantial rain and for many farmer hand feed livestock be the priority . 
So arm with glove , plier and wire-strainers , more than 100 volunteer be lend a hand . 

WA Govt look to Europe to toughen illegal fishing law 
The Western Australian Government have look to lead from Europe for tough new law on illegal fishing . 
Fisheries Minister Jon Ford say those catch in state water will now face fine of up to $ 150,000 and long jail sentence . 
The change also give state fishery officer new power to seize suspected illegal vessel , even if they do not have an actual catch on board . 
Mr Ford say international fishing law do not have enough clout . 
`` I send my officer over to Europe to talk to the OECD authority that deal with illegal fishing , '' he say . 
`` They tell u it be very difficult to get a conviction under international law , it be unlikely that it would change in the near future . Our best chance be to strengthen our law at a domestic level . '' 

Frost hit SA winter potato crop 
The price of potato could be set to rise after a large area of the winter crop be wipe out in South Australia 's Mallee region . 
Growers estimate about 10,000 tonne of potato have be affect by frost and they be expect stock to be in short supply later in the year . 
Pinnaroo grower Rick Rossitano lose about 4,000 tonne . 
`` It 's very widespread . It 's affect all the spud farmer in the area , '' he say . 

Dairy farmer warn to prepare for drop in income 
There be a warning for dairy farmer today to prepare for a drop in income , a milk processing company announce new season price . 
Fonterra have announce a 5 per cent drop in opening price compare to last season , blame the downturn on a weak international market and fluctuate Aussie dollar . 
Industry analyst Steve Spencer believe other processor will follow suit . 
`` There 's a lot of competition for milk in the industry and that 's a pressure that 's keep price reasonably firm , '' he say . 

Police wo n't investigate mulesing complaint 
The New South Wales Police Force have pour cold on water on claim that farmer could face animal cruelty charge if they mules sheep without pain relief . 
Animal Liberation have warn that from July 1 , they will ask police to investigate anyone carry out a mulesing operation without analgesia , say that would contravene animal cruelty legislation . 
But NSW Assistant Police Commissioner Steve Bradshaw say police will not be visit farm , a mulesing be legal . 

ABARE urge to lower wheat yield estimate 
A grain industry analyst say the late forecast for Australia 's crop yield this year be too optimistic . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) have revise it harvest estimate down by 11 per cent since February but say the outlook be still quite positive . 
But the editor of the Callum Downs Commodity News , Malcolm Bartholomeus , say ABARE should lower it wheat yield estimate of 22.8 million tonne . 
`` If we do n't get some rain right around the country very soon they will have to start factoring in some quite substantial production shortfall from the estimate that they have publish at this stage , '' he say . 

Joyce not budge on biofuels bill 
Nationals Senator Barnaby Joyce say he will vote against the Federal Government to force change to a fuel tax bill , which could see farmer get few rebate on biodiesel . 
He say the bill , be debate today , only allow farmer to get a diesel fuel rebate from major oil company , and not small biodiesel producer . 

N Korea nuclear concern push up gold price 
The price of gold be up $ 12 in New York overnight after a spate of safety-net buying by international investor concern about North Korea 's nuclear ambition . 
Gold Corporation analyst Brom Suchecki say safe-haven buying be also rapidly increase in Australia , a a protection against nervy equity and boom real estate market . 
Mr Suchecki say gold buying at the Perth Mint be up 300 per cent in the past year . 
`` A lot of it be what you would call your mum and dad investor . I think that institutional demand be probably a factor overseas , probably not so much in Australia , '' he say . 

Tas mine fire halt production 
An overnight fire have stop production at an iron ore mine in a remote area of north-east Tasmania . 
The fire at the Savage River mine be believe to have start in an ore concentrator while worker be weld . 
More than 40 firefighter battle the blaze , and Australian Bulk Minerals manage director , Dave Sandy , say the damage be still be assess . 
`` Most of the damage be relate to conveyor belt and electrical cabling , there may be some structural damage on the upper level but on the main floor it seem to be in reasonably good shape , '' he say . 

Truss comment spark rail infrastructure stoush 
A war of word have break out about whether the rail freight industry be pull it weight when it come to funding infrastructure around the country . 
Federal Transport Minister , Warren Truss , say rail should do more to make itself competitive and win back it share of the market from road freight . 
The Productivity Commission be investigate whether road and rail freight industry be compete on a level playing field . 
Brian Nye from the Australasian Railways Association say the industry be work hard to improve it position . 
`` Rail have be neglect and the Commonwealth Government have put quite a lot of money into it , but overall it 's do a lot to improve itself and it could do more , '' he say . 

US could target Aust pork market , researcher say 
The re-entry of the US into the Japanese beef market could see American producer try to sell more pork to Australia . 
The chief executive of the Pork Cooperative Research Council , Dr Roger Campbell , say the beef ban saw the Japanese switch to US pork . 
`` So what they do get be pick up [ in ] ... export , record export actually , in pork , so they be likely to come back and so they 'll be look for other outlet for them and Australia be one of those outlet , '' he say . 

US cattleman unhappy with Japanese beef trade term 
The US beef industry be not impress by Japan 's agreement to re-open it market to US beef after Tokyo complete inspection of US plant in July . 
Trade adviser for the National Cattlemen 's Beef Association , Greg Doud , complain it have be two-and-a-half year and the US have trade no beef with Japan . 
Now on the eve of a visit to the US by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi , Japan have agree to resume import , but keep out the vast majority of US beef with what Mr Doud say be an unscientific barrier to trade . 
`` We 're not go to be happy until we 're at an international guideline , and we 're able to trade everything , at a minimum , under 30 month of age , '' he say . 
Japan insist on a 20-month standard to combat mad cow disease . 
The US cattleman back trade sanction against Japan , introduce by several US lawmaker , until Japan finally lift it US beef ban . 
The Cattle Council of Australia be cautiously welcome the news . 
Executive director David Innal say the sooner consumer confidence about the safety of beef return , the good for all cattle producer . 
`` We welcome the US beef come back into the market , '' he say . 
`` Since BSE be detect total consumption of beef be down about 15 per cent and what we be about be see that total pie growing of beef consumption . 

New 'Team Dogging ' event to feature in rodeo 
This weekend 's annual rodeo in the small far north Queensland town of Laura feature a new event call 'Team Dogging ' . 
Organisers believe it be the first rodeo in Australia to have a bull-dogging competition with two horseman leap off to grab a bullock - one by the head , the other by the tail . 
Laura rodeo secretary Karlene Shephard say the event evolve last year when the truckload of normal dog steer do not turn up , so they use large bullock instead . 
`` [ The ] fella go through and draft off the one that have a little bit of horn that be there and put them in the dogging box , '' she say . 
`` When the first fella go in he look at it and he say 'gee they 're a bit big ' because they be bullock and they be flat out fit in the dogging box and anyway another fella off the committee say 'why do n't two of you have a go at it ' . 

Salvos to maintain refuge staffing level 
The Australian Services Union say the Salvation Army have agree to maintain staffing level at it Newcastle refuge for the time be , while negotiation continue over planned staff cut . 
The Salvos want to restructure Faith Cottage , a crisis accommodation centre for woman and child , so permanent staff would be employ on a part-time basis . 
A night-shift position will also be cut . 
The union 's Kylie Rooke say management of the centre have agree to negotiate it position . 
`` The Salvation Army have respond to our offer of work cooperatively together by say they be willing to continue discussion and they will maintain the status quo at the service in regard to it be staff 24 hour and the hour that the staff work , '' she say . 

Fuel tax Bill expect to negatively impact on biofuels industry 
A fuel tax Bill which pass through the Senate last night be expect to have a negative effect on the biofuels industry in Australia by remove tax advantage for small biofuels producer . 
Last year the Federal Government commission a report into the viability of the industry , include research from the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) . 
ABARE 'S study say the world oil price , feed grain price and tax arrangement all affect the industry . 
The report 's author , Graham Love , say any change to taxation be significant . 
`` They could have a significant effect to the extent that if tax treatment become more generous then you would presume that that would make the industry more viable or if they be to go the other way it would be less viable , '' he say . 
The Senate be also tell the Bill could severely disadvantage rural community who be look to the biofuels industry for investment . 
Gary Tepper , from Swan Hill Council in Victoria , say the whole community be work hard to make sure a local ethanol plant go ahead . 
`` We really see the whole biofuels , renewable energy industry a some sort of hope for region , '' he say . 

Bad road cost state : report 
A new report claim low road and transport investment be cost some state up to 12 per cent in livestock export . 
The Australian Livestock Transporters Association be debate the report on bad road at it national conference this weekend in Canberra . 
While fuel price continue to plague the industry , the association 's executive director , Luke Fraser , say gain can be also make in other area . 
`` There 's a limit to what the industry and perhaps even the Australian Government can do with world fuel price , which have force u to look more closely at thing like target road investment , '' he say . 

Farmers , service station owner not expect inquiry to low petrol price 
The National Farmers Federation and fuel station owner be not expect another Senate inquiry into fuel will lower price . 
Senator Nick Minchin have announce the new inquiry after pressure from the Federal Opposition . 
While there be scepticism about what the Government say be the 45th parliamentary probe into petrol pricing , Ron Bowden from the Service Stations Association say it be always a useful exercise . 
`` There 's always value to an inquiry because the market never stay still , '' Mr Bowden say . 

Fishing cop to be base in Darwin 
The policing of illegal fishing in Australian water be be centralise in Darwin . 
It be part of the Federal Government 's budget allocation of $ 389 million over the next three year . 
Fifty-three people will be base at the new Territory head office of the Australian Fisheries Management Authority . 
The authority 's Peter Venslovas say nearly 190 illegal boat have be apprehend so far this year . 
`` And our target rate for the come year will be about 650 vessel , '' he say . 
`` Last calender year 281 illegal foreign fishing vessel be apprehend . Most of those , or nearly all of those be from Indonesia . 

Use of brown coal could reduce greenhouse emission , study show 
A research project into the use of brown or dirty coal could reduce Australia 's greenhouse emission from power generation to close to zero in the next decade . 
The Monash Energy and Anglo Coal project in Victoria be explore the feasibility of drying , gasify and then liquefy coal into a new synthetic low emission fuel . 
With 80 per cent of Australia 's power generation come from coal , Jeff Cochrane from Monash Energy say there will be important benefit for the environment 

Strategy tackle vegie supply plan for remote community 
Aboriginal community should get good supply of fresh fruit and vegetable , follow the remote Indigenous store conference hold in Adelaide this week . 
Community leader , store manager and freight company , from three state and the Northern Territory , collaborate to work out good way to improve delivery of perishable good . 
Many neighbour community have be use different trucking company and in far north WA , Bililuna store manager Tom Waller say hopefully they can now get their vegies more than once a fortnight . 

Organic beef producer feel drought 
Organic cattle producer in the outback channel country of Queensland and South Australia be find it hard to meet demand because of the continue drought . 
OBE Beef , which supply grass-fed organic beef to the United States , Europe and Asia , be find it tough a dry condition keep cattle number low . 
Sharon Oldfield from Cowarie Station on the Birdsville Track , who supply organic beef , say they have have to halve their cattle herd . 
`` We would n't have have a good general summer rain probably for four or five year now , in some area it 's be up to six year , '' she say . 

Wool trade feature in award-winning novel 
A former wool grower and shearer 's cook have win Australia 's rich literary prize . 
Roger McDonald be last night award the Miles Franklin award for his novel about the origin of Australia 's wool trade , The Ballad of Desmond Kale . 

NT aerial medial team celebrate milestone 
There be another medical team celebrate 60 year in the air . 
The Top End Aerial Medical Service average six flight a day , care for those living north of Elliott in the Northern Territory , and also serve offshore oil rig and part of South-East Asia . 
Flight nurse Marg Fuller have be on board for half of the service 's history , and have one particularly happy memory . 

Europe poise to act on foreign wine threat 
Europe be admit it have to do something about the threat from foreign wine produce in Australia , South Africa and Chile . 
The European Commission have unveil plan to pull out more than 10 per cent of Europe 's vine over the next five year to reduce it wine glut . 
The move , which will cost of 2.4 billion euro , be an admission that Europe be worry about the threat from foreign wine producer like Australia , South Africa and Chile . 
The EU also admit it have make mistake in the area of marketing and subsidy . 
The commission 's Michael Mann say it be a radical overhaul to address a massive wine lake . 
`` We be go to get rid of a situation where we have get too much wine . We be go to use money to get people out , '' he say . 
`` We be go to simplify our labelling rule and you know after a five-year period once all be say and do with the re-structuring it will be the market that decide . We want to be in the situation where the European wine be the one people be choose . '' 

Wheat trade with Iraq to continue : Howard 
Wheat Australia , which be yet to ship 350,000 tonne of wheat to Iraq , be watch event in the Middle East closely , after the Iraqi Trade Minister threaten to stop all deal between the two country . 
Abdul Falah al-Sudany threaten to cut trade tie after the shooting of a bodyguard from his ministry by Australian soldier earlier this week . 
But follow diplomatic talk overnight , Prime Minister John Howard have tell Channel Nine he do not expect Australia 's wheat trade to be affect . 
`` I can tell you that the Iraqi Trade Minister saw the Australian ambassador and the Iraqi Trade Minister tell our ambassador that he do not want this incident to interfere with the bilateral relationship or to affect our trade relationship , '' he say . 
Meanwhile , the Western Australian Farmers Federation deny it be withdraw support for AWB 's wheat export monopoly . 
Federation senior vice-president , Robert Doney , yesterday suggest in a national newspaper interview that the veto power should be remove from AWB 's single desk . 
But grain president Ray Marshall have describe the comment a a `` naive indiscretion '' , and deny any split on the issue . 
`` Always when you have 17 people sit around a table you will have differ opinion , '' he say . 
`` I believe at this moment whilst policy be very clear , we 're at the status quo until such time that the Cole Inquiry come out and we 're very clear about our view . 
Meanwhile , Australia be not alone in suffer wheat crop loss this year from drought . 
The US crop continue to decline in quality , as well a quantity , amid persistent heat and drought . 
The US wheat crop be already forecast off 14 per cent from the last marketing year , and dry condition be also take a toll on the quality of what 's leave . 
Brad Rippey be a US Agriculture Department meteorologist and say the winter wheat crop be rat 29 per cent which be good to excellent . 
`` But a very large 46 per cent be very poor to poor , '' he say . 

Minister push deal with Gulf state 
Although talk to set up a free trade deal with the United Arab Emirates have stall , Trade Minister Mark Vaile say Australia should try to do a deal with all six nation of the Gulf Co-operation Council . 
A spokesperson for the Minister say the Gulf state be an important and grow market for Australia , with export of good worth $ 4 billion in 2005 . 
The Gulf Council comprise the UAE , Bahrain , Kuwait , Oman , Qatar and Saudi Arabia . 

Commodity export ' earnings boom 
Earnings from commodity export be boom even more than expect this year , largely thanks to the mineral and energy sector , accord to the late figure . 
Australia 's Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) predict commodity export will rise 16 per cent this year , more than double it original forecast issue at the Outlook Conference in February . 
The increase be thanks to a strong mineral and energy sector which be now expect to earn $ 48 billion - up $ 4 billion on the February forecast . 
It be a different story for farm commodity though with the February forecast of $ 29.6 billion downgrade slightly . 

NLIS program chief defend rollout 
The head of the committee in charge of implement the National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) have defend the time it be take to roll it out . 
That be despite just one state so far - Victoria - have mandatory NLIS without any exemption . 
The NLIS be a national program design to allow all cattle to be trace from paddock to plate . 
The chairman of the national NLIS executive committee , John Wilde , say the rollout have exceed expectation . 
`` We be well into the implementation phase and it 's perform really well , it 's exceed our expectation . It will obviously be a number of year before the implementation phase be finally wash through . But we be very very pleased with the progress to date , '' he say . 
Meanwhile , Linda Hewitt , the chairwoman of the Australian Beef Association , which be lobby against the NLIS , say cattleman be good off without the scheme . 

Tas fox population confirm : report 
A new report have find there be definitely foxes in Tasmania and they pose a multi-million dollar threat to the State 's agricultural sector . 
Despite a number of report sighting since a state task force be set up three year ago , the existence of fox in Tasmania have remain an open question . 
But main author of the new report , Glenn Saunders , say there be no doubt that a small population exists . 
`` I guess we come in a an external group and look at it impartially , '' he say . 
`` We have nothing to gain or benefit from conclude one way or the other , but on review all of the available evidence that we could gather , and I mean all of the available evidence not just snippet of it here and there , we really could n't come to any other conclusion . '' 
And if they find the Tassie fox , there be a market for them . 
A fox skin buyer and exporter say demand and price for Australian fox skin be rise after year of disinterest from the trade . 
The trade decline and price plummet during the 1980s during a bitter campaign wag by animal liberation group against the use of fur in fashion . 
A large number of fox shooter stop take skin and the skill of skinning , and prepare the pelt , almost die out . 
But fox skin exporter Don McGilvray say renew Chinese interest in fur be lead the trade 's recovery . 
`` I 'm pay from $ 25 for the top and the average be anywhere from 13 to $ 16 , '' he say . 

Fishing industry set for restructure 
Fishing industry in four region across Australia look set for major change a a result of a Federal Government buy-back . 
The $ 220 million scheme close last week and unofficial report from industry source suggest that up to half the fisherman in some area have accept the Government 's offer . 
In New South Wales , the South-East Trawl Fishing Industry Association president , Fritz Drenkharn , say eight out of 14 boat have put in tender and if they be all accept it will have a big impact on processing plant . 
`` Oh well , restructure on the shore facility , the haulage contractor will also be sit on the fence wait to see what 's happen in relation to their business , Mr Drenkharn say . 
`` In the on-shore facility there 's a real lot rid on the line . '' 
Meanwhile , there should be more prawn for Christmas this year , with news that 660,000 baby tiger prawn have survive a cold spell in the far north of Western Australia . 
The Kimberley Prawn Company be concern their post-larval stock have die a fortnight ago , when water temperature drop in the tank . 
Owner Ian Crimp say it now prove the region be suitable to harvest throughout the year . 
`` [ It ] now mean that we have the ability of crop all year round at Derby , whereas part of Australia they can only crop prawn during the summertime , '' Mr Crimp say . 

Grain farmer ' future look bleak 
Many Victorian grain farmer be still very depressed about the outlook for the season . 
In western Victoria , the local water authority , Grampians Wimmera Mallee Water , say the winter channel run may even have to be cancel for rural home dam because they be only 6 per cent full , the low level ever record for this time of year . 
Grain and sheep farmer Bernard Gross from Drung Drung say if winter rainfall do not return to normal , the future will be bleak . 
`` My family have be here since 1873 . But I have be tell that the early 1900s be also particularly dry , '' Mr Gross say . 

Frost-tolerant crop a possibility : scientist 
Scientists believe grain grower could one day be able to sow frost-tolerant cereal crop . 
The Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics in Adelaide be study the gene of Japanese barley , which have frost-tolerant property . 
Frost damage be believe to cost South Australia 's and Victoria 's barley industry more than $ 30 million per year . 
Professor Geoff Fincher say this research could eventually have application for other crop . 

Dried mango head to E Timor orphanage 
Children in orphanage across the capital of East Timor will be chew on Northern Territory 'mango leather ' this month . 
Kakadu Dried Fruits , base at Batchelor , have donate 500 packet of dried mango . 
Owner Doug Allsopp say he have more to offer a food aid , if the first batch be well receive . 
`` We have an excess of this product [ and ] because our product do n't contain any preservative or additive , it do n't have an indefinite shelf life , '' he say . 
`` Rather than allow the product to go to waste we think that people in East Timor could probably put it to good use . 

Swimmers avoid crocs in lake record attempt 
Six Sydneysiders swim into the record book over the weekend , cross Australia 's large man make lake in Western Australia 's Kimberley region . 
Their effort cross Lake Argyle raise $ 80,000 for the Royal Flying Doctor Service . 
Swimmer Jon Attwater , from Balmoral , say it take them 19 hour over three day and thankfully they do not spot a crocodile through their goggles . 
`` We do n't have any face-to-face confrontation which we be very glad of , Mr Attwater say . 
`` We do a lot of ocean swimming and we swim around in the sea with probably a lot more shark than we 're ever likely to see crocodile here , but we be very concerned about meet up with a crocodile , we 've only see picture of them in movie and they do n't look very nice . '' 

Harnessing up the horse and cart increase in popularity 
As the price of fuel rise , many people be turn to alternative mode of transport . 
They be dust off their bicycle , put on the sneaker , but what about harness up the horse and cart ? 
A group of carriage driver in Tasmania get together once a month and it seem interest in their hobby be on the rise . 
Driver Wally McGlone say some member of the group have be brave the traffic and take to the bitumen . 
`` We 've get one man here and he 's drive his horse down to what they call the railway supermarket at Ulverstone and get his grocery , but I do n't think his wife be game enough to go with him but he go down anyhow , '' Mr McGlone say . 

Council continue fight for skilled worker visa 
The meat processing sector say it have not give up fight for more skilled worker visa to be process , despite fail to get a commitment from the Federal Government . 
Abattoirs across Australia employ hundred of foreign worker under the 457 visa program to address labour shortage , but over the past four month the Immigration Department have delay some application . 
The Australian Meat Industry Council will continue meeting with the Federal Government this week . 
The council 's Kevin Cottrill say talk so far have address allegation that industry be misuse the program : 
`` There be a lot of allegation and a lot of them be not specifically relate to the meat industry , and I think this be one of the difficulty we have at the moment , '' he say . 
`` Our discussion with the department generally have be around issue of skill level that be require . There have be some discussion about pay level but these issue be really now cover by pay regulation . '' 

AWB finalise deal with India 
Wheat exporter AWB have finalise two deal to India , worth 1 million tonne , after many month of negotiation . 
The first shipment be hold up after claim of contamination by Indian authority which be later disprove by further testing . 
The second deal , though reach in principle some time ago , have only now be finalise . 
AWB spokesman Peter McBride say the wheat will be ship as soon a possible , but farmer will bear the cost of the delay . 

Forecast bring more heartache to farmer 
There be another gloomy weather forecast for farmer who have be hop for rain . 
The late climate forecast show that the vast majority of Australia be likely to receive less than average rainfall over the next three month , with the dry outlook of all in the grainbelt of Western Australia . 
And in another blow to grain grower , temperature be likely to be above average , particularly in New South Wales and southern Queensland . 
Dr Andrew Watkins , from the National Climate Centre , say warm sea temperature in the Pacific be to blame . 

NFF announces meeting to resolve quarantine difference 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say there be a lack of confidence in Australia 's quarantine system and it have set up a meeting on July 14 to try resolve difference between farmer and government . 
The NFF say farmer and industry have a number of concern with the way Australia 's quarantine system be work and say that communication between authority , and the farm sector , have break down . 
The July meeting will bring together industry and the Federal Government to try and sort out the problem , include what the NFF call a `` loss of confidence '' in quarantine and biosecurity . 
But Kevin Cooper , from the NSW Department of Primary Industries , deny the system be in trouble . 
`` Experiences in recent year have show that the communication have be robust and sound , '' he say . 

Milk processor explore merger option 
One of Australia 's large milk processor have open the door to a possible merger . 
Victorian-based Tatura Milk , which provide about 5 per cent of Australia 's dairy product , be undertake a financial review after post a $ 6 million loss before tax last year . 
Chairman Ian Bertram say all opportunity will be explore during the six-month review . 
`` We have n't rule out any possibility , we 've leave it very open , we do n't know the outcome , we do n't know the answer , '' he say . 

Sheep farmer help out cyclone victim 
A Victorian sheep farmer have start a charity drive to help Queensland banana grower whose crop be devastate by cyclone Larry . 

Federation dismiss survey perception 
Most consumer think the chicken industry be use hormone and steroid to make their bird artificially large , accord to a survey which the industry fund . 
The Australia Chicken Meat Federation say the perception reveal in it survey be untrue . 
Executive director Dr Andreas Dubs say antibiotic be use to keep bird healthy , but it be good breeding and not additive that have cause the increase in size . 
`` They be essentially think primarily of hormone and antibiotic , that 's what come up , '' Dr Dubs say . 

Frost wipe out crop in WA 
Horticulturalists in Western Australia be suffer an unseasonal frost , wipe out a number of fruit and vegetable producer in the state 's south east . 
The estimated $ 4 million worth of damage will cause shortage and price rise . 
Manjimup avocado producer Tony Fontiani say it be his second successive year of seasonal setback . 
`` We 've lose about approximately 90 per cent of our fruit we have 12,000 tray of avocado on the tree and I think we 'll be lucky if we pick a thousand to 1,500 tray , '' he say . 
`` It just mean that we will have to tighten our belt and spend less and struggle through for another year but we 're only just get in to the situation where we 're produce a quantity of avocado , this be go to be our big year . '' 
And frost could cut Australia 's navel orange crop this season by 20 per cent , accord to preliminary forecast . 

SAFF rejoin National Farmers Federation 
South Australia 's Farmers Federation ( SAFF ) be rejoin the national farming body . 
SAFF withdraw it membership from the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) three year ago because it could not afford the fee . 
The NFF have negotiate a discount rate to South Australia for the next two year . 
SAFF 's Carol Vincent say her organisation could not continue be independent from the national body . 
`` I do n't think it be affordable for the SAFF any more not to be a be a member of the NFF . Farming organisation ca n't afford for the future to be in competition with one another they have to be work together , we think the future need strong national representation as well a strong state representation , '' she say . 
NFF chief executive Ben Fargher say the move will strengthen farmer ' influence in Canberra . 
`` To be frank it do hurt NFF 's credibility if state farm organisation be not member , so it be great that SAFF be come back , '' he say . 

Burning boat send strong message to illegal fisher 
An Indonesian fishing boat be be burn in Darwin today - the 74th to be apprehend in Australian water this year . 
Earlier this year , the Navy seize the 'Harapan ' , which be an Indonesian type three ice boat , inside the Australian fishing zone boundary . 
The 27 metre long boat could store up to 40 tonne of fish , but this one be only carry about 50 kilogram of fish such a snapper aid by GPS navigation . 
The Australian Fisheries Management Authority say these boat burning send a strong message to the owner in Indonesia , that illegal fishing will not be tolerate . 
It have be set alight in a boat burn pit at Hudson Creek , near the busy East Arm Port of Darwin and will take all day to burn completely . Any metal remaining will be salvage for cost recovery . 

Gold mining company go into administration 
One of Western Australia 's historic gold company , Croesus Mining , have slip into administration , despite record gold price . 
Hartley 's mining expert Rob Brierley say it be disappoint for the many small shareholder in the Kalgoorlie-based Croesus and he be not sure whether the company will survive the overhaul from the administrator . 
`` It 's a bit sad really , 80 year of continous operation at Norseman , they 'll to continue to operate the mine , but obviously the company be go to be under financial duress , '' he say . 
Meanwhile , a social divide be become evident in central Queensland where the coal mining boom be turn to gloom for many town . 
Attractive wage at Bowen Basin coal mine have entice thousand of people from around Australia , push rental price in small rural town to Sydney and Melbourne level . 
Marion Callow , from Clermont 's Commercial Hotel , say a basic wage will not cover the rent any more . 
`` The contractor be come into town to work for the mine and then the mine themselves be provide the cheap accommodation for their worker , '' she say . 

Fox control program extend 
The Tasmanian Government have extend it fox control program for another four year . 
The move come after an independent report find fox do exist in Tasmania and immediate control be need . 

Dingo wee prof successful in scar off kangaroo 
Perth-based researcher have stumble on a successful , although unusual , way to frighten kangaroo - dingo wee . 
A team from Curtin University believe kangaroo recognise the smell of their long-time predator , the dingo and steer clear . 
They hope to isolate the chemical , to create a product that keep roos away from crop . 
Project manager Dr Michael Parsons say they first trialled the smell at a wildlife sanctuary and watch the kangaroo flee . 
`` She walk out of the bathroom with a tube of urine in an evaporative canister and as soon a she get about five metre from them , they look at her and immediately flee ... and this be a whole mob of them , '' he say . 

Wild pig may be spread sugar cane disease , say farmer 
Sugar cane smut have now be confirm on more than 20 farm in south-east Queensland . 
The fungal disease be discover for the first time in Queensland two week ago and the industry 's exotic disease plant health plan be in force . 
While there be now strict quarantine measure on the movement of people and plant , cane farmer Bruce Royan say wild pig may be spread the disease . 
`` It 's obviously blow in with the wind or somebody else have be drive around the farm , '' he say . 

Report highlight desire for change to wheat marketing 
A new report on the future of wheat export from Australia have back call for change to the single desk . 
Single Vision Grains Australia , a government-funded body , survey 27 industry group from grower to exporter and grain marketer . 
Its conclusion mirror other report about the future of wheat marketing - most want to keep the single desk , but remove AWB 's right to veto export from other trader and bolster the power of the Wheat Export Authority . 
But the Grains Council , which represent around 30,000 grower , say Single Vision should not have carry out the survey in the first place . 
Chairman Murray Jones say the council refuse to take part when approach . 
`` For them to say that they 're the peak body for the Australian grain industry be absolutely incorrect , '' Mr Jones say . 
`` Their press release come out say the Australian grain industry 's call for change to single desk policy , now who 's call for it , be they call for it ? '' he say . 

Farm lobby group concern over biosecurity law 
The New South Wales Farmers Association say it have find three major flaw with Australia 's biosecurity legislation . 
The farm body commission barrister Tom Brennan to identify which law might be legally challenge , amid concern that communication between farmer and the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) have break down . 
Chairman of the association 's quarantine committee , Peter Carter , say Mr Brennan 's advice have raise a number of concern . 
`` The first one be that the import risk analysis have no legal status , which be quite frightening and can be ignore by AQIS , '' Mr Carter say . 
`` Secondly , he find that there need to be good definition of the way that the minister consults with AQIS , or do n't consult with them , but it need to be define in law because at the moment there be a big hole in the law over that . '' 

Hendra virus horse death concern vet association 
The Australian Veterinary Association ( AVA ) say it be concern about the handling of the death of a horse in Queensland two week ago from the hendra virus . 
The virus kill horse trainer Vic Rail and 17 of his horse in the mid 1990s . 

McGauran back livestock ID system 
The Federal Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , have defend an audit of the National Livestock Identification System . 
The Australian Beef Association ( ABA ) say the audit order by Mr McGauran in recent week , will not be independent , and will not solve problem inherent in the livestock traceback system . 
ABA chair Linda Hewitt say there be no point check the database be work , if the accuracy of information enter at the property and meatworks level be not check . 
Mr McGauran say the audit will be both independent and comprehensive . 
`` I can only say that this will be an independent assessment by the government of the day . The ABA be quite intemperate . They claim the NLIS be fundamentally flaw , not just the database , '' Mr McGauran say . 

Drought force cattle evacuation from Channel Country 
One of the nation 's large beef producer say it be move nearly 1,000 head of cattle out of Queensland 's drought-stricken Channel Country every week . 
S. Kidman and Co produce beef for market in Japan , the US and South-East Asia on property on the Georgina and Diamantina Rivers and Cooper Creek . 
Chief executive Greg Campbell say a moderate flood earlier this year be not enough to stop destocking . 
`` Throughout the Channel Country at the moment we 're about 50 to 60 per cent stock , '' he say . 

Rain bring relief to WA farmer 
There have finally be some rain relief in Western Australia , with fall along the western coast overnight . 
Only marginal fall be record inland , with some grain grower fare good than others . 
`` By 6:00pm last night I 'd have 20.2 millimetre and then overnight another 7.5mls , so for those few hour it be 27.7 and it 's absolutely fantastic , '' John Williams from Bindoon say . 
`` Just so great to see all this rain after all this time . Those that have be wait for the rain will be able to put their crop in and those that have dry sown , this will help them along just great . '' 
Garth Cowald from West Canna say he have 4.5 millimetre of rain last night . 
`` We have n't sow any wheat yet , get a bit late now , the ground be too dry . We have n't have hardly any rain now for three month . We have sow lupin and oat but it have n't come up , '' Mr Cowald say . 
`` So with the cost now day , I think it 's good to leave the seed and fertiliser in the shed and the chemical and just take it from there . '' 

Low demand reduces NT pig market 
Contract pig shooter in the Northern Territory be sell off their hunting dog because they do not have an export market this year . 
More than 20 registered shooter around the town of Katherine cull hundred of feral pig during the dry season and ship the meat to Germany . 
But this year demand and price be so low , not a single pig will be go overseas . 
Hunter Athol Schmidt say it be bad news for the environment , because without an export market it be too expensive to hunt . 
`` At the moment the stuff that 's come out of Queensland and northern NSW be just fill the pet food market , '' Mr Schmidt say . 
`` The price down south they open up at 60 cent per kilo , they tell me they 've go to 80 but you 're still flog a dead horse . 

Commissioner to investigate bushfire practice 
Concerns about bushfire prevention and recovery measure in Victoria will be investigate by the state 's emergency service commissioner . 
Commissioner Bruce Esplin have be meet with farmer and other group , who believe not enough fuel reduction burn be do before the Grampians bushfires in January . 
Mr Esplin say the report will assess what progress have be make since his report on the 2003 Alpine fire . 
`` I make a lot of recommendation in that report , 148 recommendation in fact , and I think it 's time that we put out a report to the community about what 's happen , what 's the progress on each of those recommendation , `` Mr Esplin say . 

Timbercorp branch out to compete with NZ import 
Agribusiness company Timbercorp be diversify into the tomato business , in a bid to compete with import . 
It be to spend $ 25 million building Australia 's big truss tomato glasshouse at Two Wells , north of Adelaide . 
Chief executive Robert Hance say it will produce 5,000 tonne of tomato for the domestic market , the same amount that be import from New Zealand each year . 

Qld farmer highlight green thumb 
Queensland grain grower be introduce a set of environmental guideline to show off their 'green ' credential . 
Lobby group Agforce be collate a best management practice manual in the Fitzroy Basin , in central Queensland , with plan to roll it out across the nation . 
Spokesman Kym Bremner say they want to prove to the Government and urban Australians that they be be pro-active and address problem . 
`` The uptake of zero till , while it 's be fairly spectacular , be still something that people need to work on , '' Mr Bremner say 

Egg industry seek to boost sale 
The egg industry have launch a push to get more people eat egg , after figure show Australia have the low rate of consumption of egg in the western world . 
On average we eat 169 egg each per year , a long way below the Japanese , who eat 350 , or the Americans , who consume 260 egg each . 
James Kellaway from the Australian Egg Corporation also say that while Australians be offer a wider choice of egg , most be buy cage industry product . 
`` Just over 80 per cent of Australia 's production be represent in cage egg and that have a price point attach to it which be relatively low than that price point attach to barn-laid or free-range egg , '' Mr Kellaway say . 

Longest-running land claim now over 
The longest-running land claim in the nation be be resolve today in the Gulf of Carpenteria , 700 kilometre south-east of Darwin . 
Just over 21,000 hectare across the Sir Edward Pellew Islands , be be officially hand back to the Yanyuwa people , after 30 year of debate . 
Many of the original claimant be not alive to see their dream come true , but 71-year-old Steve Johnson say the hand back provide an incentive for others to move back onto traditional land . 
`` It 's good to see that we be get our island hand back after so long . There have be a number of death in the Yanyuwa and [ other ] clan group , 130 all up in that time , '' Mr Johnson say . 
`` [ But ] I think it will make them feel a lot well , that they can move around more freely in their own country . 
`` The only thing that would be a factor now be the cost of fuel , petrol , diesel stuff like that to get out there . 

Grain Council agenda baffle ex-president 
Former Grains Council president Keith Perrett say the peak body be lose the confidence of grower and create division in the industry . 
Yesterday the council slam a new survey call for change to the single desk for wheat export , say Single Vision Grains Australia have no authority to conduct it . 
Mr Perrett head the Grains Council between 2001 and 2005 , but claim it be now fail to provide leadership . 
He say he be baffle by it current agenda , which seem to be politically-driven . 
`` Certainly most grower that I speak to say 'what 's go on here at the moment ' , '' he say . 
`` It 's a bit beyond me a to why they would be take that line , you know the easy answer be to say 'well it 's a bit of patch protection ' , I 'm not sure what the outcome be why they 've come down the path they be . 
`` Certainly I 'd be take a different approach to the one that 's be take at the moment . '' 

Corporation 's decision may cost timber industry job 
The timber industry say up to 2,000 job be under threat from the Australian Rail Track Corporation 's decision to use concrete rather than timber sleeper to upgrade the Melbourne to Brisbane rail line . 
The National Association of Forest Industries say saw mill operator be expect to supply up to 400,000 timber sleeper a year for the next five year . 
But the association 's Catherine Murphy say they have now be tell timber be no longer require . 
`` It 's not just along the Murray there but it 's the north coast of New South Wales and I understand sleeper be also produce in Queensland and Western Australia , '' she say . 
`` This be a specific market that many of these saw miller have invest $ 10 million , for example , over the past two year in upgrade their mill specifically to provide timber . '' 

Farming practice blame for loom mouse plague 
No-till farming practice and leave over seed from last harvest be be blame for a looming mouse plague on South Australia 's upper Eyre Peninsula . 
Surveys have show more than 4,000 mouse per hectare , the high number since 1995 . 
Unlike conventional seeding , sow crop with the no-till method leave one distinct furrow for mouse to follow and burrow into to eat grain . 
Buckleboo farmer Jim Hamlin say the mouse be just another problem when they be already face a cold , dry start to the season . 
`` Where some of the crop be up , they 're chew off leaf and in other place , where the crop be not up , they 've dig under the ground and get the grain as well , '' he say . 

Businesses suffer a dry condition continue 
Dry condition on pastoral property south-east of Alice Springs have take their toll on business which service the area . 
It have be four year since the region have have any decent rain and stock feed be scarce . 
Rodney Mingel , who run Mingel 's Heli Service , have ground one of three helicopter this season and stand down a pilot . 
He say mustering work have be halve , due to the lack of rain and low stock number . 
`` From now on through to September be really our busy period , '' he say . 
`` There 's just not much happening , I mean people have do their work , work that they normally do towards the end of the year they 've do at the beginning of the year . 
`` Cattle number be down , so there 's not six paddock to muster anymore there 's one . 

Murray River level drop 
There be concern about the state of the Murray River this winter . 
River Murray Water say it storage be only 40 per cent full and have reduce river flow to protect current level . 
With a lack of rain across the catchment as well , part of the river between Mildura and Swan Hill be only waist deep . 
Colignan citrus grower and river boat enthusiast Robert Mansell say the river be as low a he have see it at this time of year . 
`` It 's really , really interesting , '' he say . 

Rain enable farmer to finish sowing crop 
Welcome rain over the grain belt in Western Australia this week have many farmer back out in the paddock to finish sow crop . 
The Western Australian Farmers Federation have survey it member and president Trevor De Landgrafft say that for many , the season be a long way behind , after one of the driest May and June period on record . 
`` Forty per cent of the respondent have less than half of their crop in the ground , '' he say . 
`` Half of those people do n't have any crop in at all . 
`` Sixty per cent of respondent have get more than half their crop in and two third of that number somewhere between 80 and one 100 per cent . 
`` We 're say we think about half the crop that have be sow be out of the ground . '' 

Soft international demand blame for drop in milk price 
Australia 's large milk processor have lower the price it will offer dairy farmer this year . 
The move by Murray Goulburn to drop price by 2.9 per cent follow a 5 per cent cut announce by New Zealand-based Fonterra . 
The company 's Ian MacAulay be blame soft international demand . 

Green light give to abalone farm 
The first land-based abalone farm in New South Wales have be approve on the state 's mid-north coast . 
Native abalone be under threat from poach and aquaculture be see a a way of preserve number . 
But local conservation group fear the development could pollute coastal water and destroy seagrass bed . 
Graham Housefield from Australian Bounty Seafoods say he have do everything he can to deal with the concern . 
`` I guess what it really come down to be that the farm need to have a pristine area because we need water that 's as clean a possible and therefore we ca n't afford to do anything to harm the water from that area , '' he say . 
`` These animal be absolutely and totally reliant on have clean water . '' 

Flower grower surprise at banned-seed list 
Cut-flower grower be call for more time to comment on draft change to seed import regulation . 
For the past two month , Biosecurity Australia have be review the Permitted Seeds List . 
But tropical flower grower , like Alan Carle , say the review have catch many grower by surprise . 
`` We be in a process , a review process to dramatically restrict the number of plant and seed which may be bring into the country in the future , '' Mr Carle say . 
`` Effectively , it slam the door shut . We should all just band together and ask for a moratorium so we have time to consider and work in a constructive way with Biosecurity Australia and Quarantine to come up with a system which we be all happy with and do n't create some sort of black market . 
`` I mean that 's the bad thing that can happen to this country be to get thing bring in without proper control . '' 

US cattle price not expect to increase 
US Agriculture Department official say it will take year to recover from Japan 's mad cow-related ban on beef and producer there should not expect to see massive price rise . 
US Agriculture Department livestock analyst Ron Gustafson say Japan 's expect reopening of it market to US beef after it complete audit of US plant next month , will not bring a huge upswing in US cattle price . 
Mr Gustafson say it will take year to sell pre-mad cow amount of US beef to Japan , which only buy certain cut anyway . 
`` We do n't sell whole carcass to the Japanese or South Koreans , or anyone ... we sell cut that , largely , we do n't have the large demand for here in the US - short rib , plate and so-forth - the fatty item , '' he say . 

Drug bust wasp still some time away 
Wasps might be know for their bite , but their highly-tuned sense of smell could make them the sniffer dog of the future . 
Trials be under way in the United States to train tiny wasp to detect chemical . 
Dr Andrew Austin from the University of Adelaide say the idea be feasible and wasp be quick learner , but he can not see them replace dog any time soon . 
`` They 've be able to demonstrate that you can take these wasp and you can train them to recognise that particular chemical , '' he say . 
`` It 's a long way from that to actually use this particular wasp in a commercial sense , where you could actually use them a drug bust sort of wasp . 

Hotline to help men cope with depression 
The impact of the drought have prompt Beyondblue to establish a national hotline specifically to help men deal with depression . 
Chairman Jeff Kennett say men from country area be more likely to suffer from depression , but be less likely to admit the problem . 
He say the helpline will provide information , treatment and where to get help . 
`` Unfortunately depression be very prevalent throughout rural Australia and particularly among young men , '' he say . 
`` So what we hope with this Beyondblue information line be to give men the capacity wherever and however isolate their environment may be for the price of a local call to seek direction and help a to what to do in overcome their depressive illness . '' 
The hotline number , which will be in operation from July 1 be 1300 224 636 . 
WA-based rural financial counsellor Sue Smith say farmer be traditionally bad at manage stress and many case be ignore . 
She say one of the telltale sign be a change in behaviour . 
`` It 's no wonder that people be feel really stress at the moment , '' she say . 
`` The first sign be in the body , somebody will start to feel tired , they 'll get headache , their body will start to ache . 
`` Sometimes it 's other people that notice that they become quiet irritable , they may withdraw from their family and friend . 

WEA chairman 's term extend 
The chairman of the Wheat Export Authority ( WEA ) , Tim Besley , will head the regulator for another six month . 
Questions have be raise about the authority 's effectiveness , in the wake of the AWB scandal . 

Sheep chemical declare unsafe 
Access to a chemical commonly use to treat flystrike and louse in sheep will be severely restrict after test show it be unsafe . 
The review of Diazinon be prompt earlier this year after farm worker complain of headache and in some case vomit when use the chemical . 
Joan Ashton from the Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority say other chemical be more costly , but human safety be the priority . 
`` There 's really no way you can mitigate what we think be an unacceptable risk to worker , '' she say . 
`` Australia 's not the only one look at Diazinon , there 's be a range of review that have be go on worldwide and it have progressively be discontinue in other country , as well , along similar line and for similar reason for concern , a we 've identify here in Australia . '' 

Ag pilot dispute crash statistic finding 
New research from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau ( ATSB ) say agricultural pilot do not get enough training and be overly represent in crash statistic . 
The research , which look at wire strike accident where plane hit power line or other wire , find 65 per cent of low level fly accident happen in farming . 
Head of the Aerial Agricultural Association , Phil Hurst , dispute the finding and say the industry have improve it safety record . 

Economic forecaster criticise for livestock price estimate 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) be again under fire for it forecast , this time for livestock price . 
Analysts say meat price estimate be probably too low , while production forecast for beef and lamb be too high . 
Bill Cordingley from Rabobank say the beef figure have not take poor season properly into account . 

Foster 's to sell two winery 
Foster 's be set to sell two of it winery , include the iconic Barossa Seppeltsfield Winery in South Australia . 
Also on the market be Rosemount 's Denman site in the Hunter Valley and most of it Penfolds site at Nuriootpa in the Barossa Valley . 

Honeymoon mine proposal meet more opposition 
The propose Honeymoon uranium mine near Broken Hill have be meet with more opposition , with submission on the project closing today . 
Friends of the Earth say the South Australian Government will be go back on an election promise if it allow the mine to go ahead . 
Anti-nuclear campaigner Joel Catchlove say the mine be a risky , short-term operation . 
`` By support it , it put the Rann Government in quite a difficult situation . Because a there simply be n't a mine at Honeymoon at the moment they 're both threaten to break their binding SA platform for government and also it go against their election promise , '' he say . 
`` If you 've get a four to six year of operation yet it could be permanent ground water contamination in that area . '' 

Mining company hop to set up rare earth mine in NT 
A Northern Territory mining company hop to have a rare earth mine up and run within five year . 
The rare element be a key ingredient for new technology include computer screen , rechargeable battery and environmentally-friendly hybrid vehicle . 
Arafura Resources have already find an 18.6 million tonne deposit about 130 kilometre north of Alice Springs , but manage director Alistair Stephens say they hope to find more in coming month to meet grow demand . 

Tax Office focus on timber plantation record 
Companies involve in managed investment scheme be under pressure to get crop in the ground before midnight to meet end of financial year deadline . 
Staff from the Australian Tax Office have be hover around timber plantation in the far north of Western Australia to confirm paddock planting match the accounting book . 
Tom Cullity from Tropical Forestry Services say his company have a last minute scare with the Tax Commissioner at the door and the discovery that two hectare of indian sandalwood be not account for . 
`` Bearing in mind that the Tax Department be come up today we think really we 'd better do something , '' he say . 
`` I come up and have a look at it and there be obviously a gap there , and say 'hey boys what be we go to do about this ' and they all say unprintable word and off we go . 

Shareholders show support for dairy group 
Shareholders have vote down a push to disband Western Australia 's only representative dairy group . 
A resolution be put forward late last year to dissolve the organisation , amid claim it have fail to have an impact on the struggle sector . 
Following yesterday 's vote , director Jim Fremantle say there now need to be an overhaul of the processing sector . 

Rice market regulation end 
Regulation of the domestic rice market will end tomorrow . 
Until now all rice grow in New South Wales have have to be sell through the single desk hold by Sunrice or the Ricegrowers Co-operative . 

Frost damage may push up avocado cost 
The price of avocado could be set to rise , with significant frost damage to crop in the Murray Valley . 
Freezing condition a fortnight ago have cause fruit to drop off the tree . 
John Eastoe from Mildura Agricultural Contractors say he have lose 60 per cent of his crop , which have an estimate valued of more than half a million dollar . 
`` We be sit on probably our best have crop ever , we 've be lift our yield for the last three year but a you can see it 's all on the ground , '' he say . 

Katherine School of the Air celebrate anniversary 
There will be big celebration in the Top End town of Katherine tonight , a the School of the Air mark it 40th anniversary . 
These day the school serve 220 student . 
But in 1966 the first teacher in charge , Ron Smith , begin with eight student on HF radio . 
`` It really make me realise that so much depends on the family , '' he say . 
`` They need a tremendous amount of encouragement and support . It work and I be talk to a family in Darwin and their lad be one of the early student , and they have go on and travel overseas and study overseas . 

Mail contractor finally quit 400km mail run 
It be a bittersweet day for one outback mail contractor , 
After almost 40 year of service property in south-west Queensland , Cecil Russell be retire 
Since 1968 Mr Russell have be make the 400 kilometre round trip from Augathella to Carnarvon Station twice a week and say the scenery be the best part of the job . 
`` I love the country up there and that 's probably why I 've be do it so long , it 's a for ever change sort of thing , season change and yes there 's a lot of wildflower at time , '' he say . 
`` Every day you get to see a different mob of brumby horse , see quite a few wild dog and I enjoy just look at the cattle a I go and that sort of thing . 

Rock lobster fisherman to hang up pot 
Rock lobster fisherman in Western Australia will today pull their pot for the last time this season . 
Most believe this year 's catch be down slightly , but price be the best they 've see in year . 
Dongara fisherman Greg Cole say he will enjoy his break over the next four month . 
`` We 're finish on $ 32 a kilo which be a lot good than how we start , '' he say . 

Rodeo circuit veteran set for reunion 
Some of the nation 's golden oldie of the rodeo circuit be head for a reunion 
in western Queensland this weekend . 
Veteran bull and bronc rider will meet in Injune , north of Roma , to celebrate the town 's return to the professional rodeo circuit for the first time in 33 year . 
While they will not be compete , local association president Murray Douglas say they will be enjoy a beer and a catch-up . 
`` They 're come from all over Australia and they 'll be tell a few old story no doubt about how they use to do it , '' he say . 

Third dairy company announce milk price reduction 
Victorian dairy processor Warrnambool Cheese and Butter company have become the third dairy company to announce a drop in it opening price for milk . 
Processors Bonlac and Murray Goulburn announce price reduction for their supplier earlier this week . 

Retiring wine group head predict industry turnaround 
The retire chairman of the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation be predict a turnaround in the wine industry within the next four year . 
David Brownhill step down today after six year in his government-appointed role . 
With grape grower struggle with poor price and an oversupply , Mr Brownhill do not , however , expect much improvement in the short term . 
`` I believe in two year ' time the light will start to shine at the end of the tunnel , [ it ] do n't mean that it 's come out of the tunnel in two year ' time , but in four year ' time I believe that you 'll be right out of the tunnel and then you 'll most probably find we 'll be a little bit short of red wine for example , '' he say . 

Food safety standard need continual improvement , say scientist 
The safety of the food that we eat be emerge a a crucial global trade issue , which can open or block access to market . 
Scientists at the Australian Food Safety Centre say the three main concern be chemical residue , foreign item in prepared food and pathogen such a bacteria and virus . 
Professor Tom Ross say pathogenic outbreak occur at all level of the food chain from the paddock to the plate and grower , and processor , need to continue to improve safety standard . 
He say E. coli bug in the 1980s be an example of how potentially fatal contaminant continue to evolve . 
`` Twenty year ago that organism have never be see before , '' he say . 

AWB vow to fight any kickback lawsuit 
Wheat exporter AWB say it will fight any legal action launch by American farmer in the wake of the oil-for-food scandal . 
Reports suggest the company could face a billion-dollar lawsuit claim US wheat grower lose trade with Iraq when AWB pay almost $ 300 million in kickback to Saddam Hussein 's regime . 
The ABC understand the initial case may cover just 20 or so farmer but have the potential to see thousand of US and Canadian farmer join them . 
If the action be successful , it could see AWB force to make a payout triple the value of the kickback . 
But US Wheat Associates know nothing of the proposed legal suit at this stage . 
AWB spokesperson Peter McBride say AWB would fight any such legal suit . 
`` Such action be ill-conceived and if any action be formally bring against AWB we will vigorously defend , '' he say . 
The ABC understand that it be hard to argue the case that US farmer be hurt by AWB kickback , because the US have sanction against trading with Iraq . 

Single desk challenge 
AWB have challenge the grow number of proposal call for change to the single desk export system . 
National wheat pool manager David Johnston have tell a public debate in Victoria that AWB will accept the outcome from the oil-for-food inquiry . 
But he say if AWB 's export monopoly or it veto over grain export application be remove , wheat grower will be the loser . 
`` The bulk veto , I think , be a core component of the single desk a we know it and if we have people want to send wheat into Indonesia or Malaysia or any of our core market you 'll have Australian wheat compete with Australian wheat , '' he say . 

Electoral boundary change bad for voter : Anderson 
The National Party have accuse the Australian Electoral Commission of take the easy way out , by scrap the federal seat of Gwydir in northern New South Wales . 
With a shift in population , New South Wales be require to lose an electorate to accommodate a new seat in Queensland . 
The commission want to merge the seat of Gwydir with Parkes , which will cover almost half the state . 
But the retiring Member for Gwydir , former deputy prime minister John Anderson , say the move be a tragedy for country voter . 
`` I think it 's appallingly bad to see people face the prospect of be in a seat that 's over twice the size that it be now which make it far hard for people to access the local member , '' he say . 
`` This mean one less country voice in Canberra and a less chance still of be represent around the Cabinet table . 

NFF 'lives in hope ' of trade talk breakthrough 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) be confident there be still life in World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) talk , despite another failure to reach agreement on agriculture over the weekend . 
United States and European negotiator go into the talk say they be prepare to move on farm reform . 
However , negotiator in Geneva say those nation have fail to match their rhetoric with action . 
An agreement on agriculture be the crucial first step in secure broad trade deal around industrial good and service . 
Trade policy manager with the NFF , Scott Mitchell , say while it be be a frustrating process be not over yet . 
`` WTO be the main game , '' Mr Mitchell say . 
`` We live in hope that minister will go home and reflect on what 's happen here this week and will realise that we do have a narrow window of opportunity to make global trading rule well for a long time . 

Cold start to winter cut rainfall 
The freezing start to winter across southern Australia could be cause the ongoing dry weather condition . 
In normal year , cold air from the Southern Ocean collide with warm air from central Australia result in cut-off low , which bring rainfall . 
But this year , the system be not a strong . 
Dr Peter McIntosh , from the Marine Atmospheric Research Centre , say that be because it be cold inland . 
`` We 've speculate a little bit recently about what might be cause these cut-off low to decrease in intensity , '' he say . 
`` We think it be a decrease in the north-south temperature gradient . 

Coroner blame bushfire on powerline 
An electricity provider in New South Wales have be blame for cause a major bushfire in the state 's central west two year ago . 
The deputy state coroner have find the fire start near Parkes , when a tree touch a Country Energy powerline . 
The 2004 fire burn 6,000 hectare , cause the death of 690 sheep and the destruction of thousand of hectare of unharvested crop on 28 farm . 
Craig Ward say he be relieve the four-day inquest quash rumour that his farm machinery spark the blaze . 
`` I just give evidence that I be n't in the vicinity of where the fire start , '' he say . 
`` Through the GPS system on the harvester it plot every two second where the harvester have be over the period of time your harvesting . '' 
Mr Ward say he be frustrate by the approach of Country Energy to the trial , which try to prove his harvester spark the blaze . 

Ord River Irrigation Scheme expansion approve 
The long-awaited second stage development of the Ord River Irrigation Scheme in Western Australia 's far north have be give the green light . 
Tenders have be call by the WA Government , which have settle environmental and native title issue surround the development . 
The expansion of the Ord River Irrigation Scheme will make 16,000 hectare of irrigated farmland available . 
The Government say it be seek expression of interest for development of between 7,000 and 16,000 hectare of land . 
Resources Minister John Bowler say land could be available for plant as soon a 2008 . 
`` We believe we can quadruple the amount of hectare place under agriculture in irrigation , '' he say . 
`` This will make the Ord Valley one of the most significant agricultural area in Australia . '' 

Nurse practitioner scheme upset doctor 
Rural doctor in Tasmania claim they be be devalue by the introduction of nurse practitioner in remote area . 
Following the lead of other state , the Tasmanian Government will allow nurse to prescribe drug and undertake some of the traditional task of doctor to fill shortage . 
But the president of Rural Doctors Tasmania , Eric Calquoun , say nurse should remain an integral part of GP-led health care team and not be allow to practice independently . 
`` I think this be the thin edge of the wedge with this , '' he say . 
`` We 're talk about prescribe major drug , the Poisons Acts regulation be be modify so they can prescribe morphine for palliative care nurse . 

Managed investment scheme under review 
Concerns be emerge over the shift in managed investment scheme ( MIS ) from forestry and vineyard to broader agriculture . 
Plantings of walnut and avocado be among those now be offer to investor . 
Rob Dalton , from Avocados Australia , say he be concern by the push , which could massively distort the market . 
`` Reviews of MISs have indicate that the investor be in there primarily for the tax deduction and they have much less concern with profitability at the end of the project , '' he say . 
`` Whereas the normal farmer be in there for a profit and a long-term , sustainable profit . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran be also concern about the impact of MISs . 
`` When they start go into wine grape and citrus and avocadoes where there be well-established Australian industry , that be of enormous concern , '' he say . 

WA farmer back single wheat desk 
The Western Australian Farmers Federation have call for the single desk wheat marketing system to be keep , even if AWB do not operate it . 
Despite claim it be not a policy turnaround , it be the first time the federation have appear to have reservation about AWB 's future management of the single desk . 
President Trevor de Landgrafft say the power of veto must stay with the single desk , but who manage it have come under scrutiny . 

Feedlot demand outstrip grain production 
Queensland feedlot owner be be tell they may have to buy grain to fee cattle from Western Australia , if local production do not increase . 
The Department of Primary Industries say demand for feed grain like barley , sorghum and wheat be expect to outstrip local supply five out of every 10 year . 
Kym McIntyre say feedlot already consume about 2 million tonne of grain a year , with a further 1 million tonne likely to be need over the next five year . 

Feral pig destroy Ingham crop 
Farmers in north Queensland say they be be overwhelm by feral pig . 
Ingham cane farmer Tony Palmas believe the devastation of cyclone Larry could have force many pig out of their usual haunt to find food . 
Mr Palmas say he have lose crop worth up to $ 20,000 . 
He say shoot the pig be not work and there be no fruit available to use in trap . 
`` We use to get banana from north like Innisfail and Tully but for the moment there 's no banana come from there and there 's no mango or anything like that , '' he say . 

Locust fear prompt chemical buy-up 
Following warning Western Australia be face a huge locust plague this spring , the State Government have allocate more than $ 3 million towards the purchase of chemical to control plague . 
Minister for Agriculture Kim Chance say if untreated , locust could cost the state more than $ 100 million . 
It be think big summer rain have contribute to heavy egg lay this year . 
Mr Chance say farmer have to prepare for major damage . 
`` It 's not , in term of area , quite as big a the spring 2000 infestation be , which cover about , look to me on the map , two to three time the area , '' he say . 

VegMachine give farmer eye in the sky 
Landholders across the northern rangeland of Australia can now use satellite monitoring to keep track of environmental change on their property . 
The new system , which be call VegMachine , have be trialed across 80,000 square kilometre in Western Australia , the Northern Territory and Queensland . 
NT Government researcher Luke Peel want to see the free computer software program use more widely . 
`` It give you a birdseye view of the property , '' he say . 
`` The idea be the mystery of satellite imagery , what it can say and do be be expose back . 
`` It still have n't get to the point where we can actually work out kilogram per hectare on the ground . 
`` But , it certainly give an idea of how productivity can be relate to use of the resource or trapping of the resource available . 
`` Whether it 's the actual vegetation , the soil or the nutrient in the soil . '' 

Lachlan CMA outline tender process 
The Lachlan Catchment Management Authority ( CMA ) have outline how the tender process will work for part of it late round of incentive funding . The late round open last month and will close at the end of this month . Kieran Hawker , from the Lachlan CMA , say the tender process will bring a positive outcome for the environment and producer . 

Crop growth slow across the region 
The district agronomist with the Department of Primary Industries , Jan Edwards , say frost in Cowra have see germination of wheat and canola crop slow down . Ms Edwards say weed will be a big problem a a lot of crop be dry sown and so weed will emerge with the crop . This will be similar to last year . 

Truck hit mob of sheep 
A warning to motorist across the region . A truck hit a mob of 5,000 sheep near Condobolin , kill 15 lamb wether yesterday morning . Police say the drover be move the stock on the West Wyalong Road south of Condobolin when they be hit by the concrete truck . Police say it be believe the truck driver do not take notice of stock move sign . The driver be to be issue with an infringement notice for fail to give way to stock . 

Draft chicken meat import rule worry industry 
The chicken meat industry say a decision to allow import into Australia could pose an unnecessary risk to consumer . 
In a draft import risk analysis , Biosecurity Australia recommend allow uncooked chicken meat into the country , as long a export country can prove they be free of disease , include bird flu . 
But Dr Andreas Dubs , from the Australian Chicken Meat Federation , be question whether Australia can be certain about another country 's disease status . 
`` That be not a simple matter , '' he say . 
`` It really come down to the confidence that we can have with the system in place which in the past I suppose have be show to be somewhat questionable . '' 
While Australian quarantine officer usually double-check disease free claim from other country , some say that be not always a guarantee . 
Peter Scott , from the Australian Veterinary Poultry Alliance , say authority rely on get accurate information from producer . 
`` Regulatory authority can only go on the information provide to them and in some case that may not be accurate , '' Mr Scott say . 
`` We do see overseas quite a bit of product move through country . 
`` In other word , while you believe you 're get product from a particular country it may be come in via another country . '' 

Animal-based fertiliser threaten BSE status : vet 
Tasmania 's chief vet say Australia 's status a be free of mad cow disease ( BSE ) could be threaten by the indiscriminate use of animal-based pasture fertiliser . 
A number of cattle death from botulism in Tasmania have be attribute to the use of poultry litter a a fertiliser . 
Dr Rod Andrewarthur say although it be a legal product , the litter must not be use before the end of the official withholding period to ensure cattle do not ingest any linger animal protein . 
He say under BSE protocol , no animal protein can be feed to cattle . 
`` We sell our meat to the world a a premium because we be free of disease like mad cow disease , '' he say . 
`` We be under audit from other country like the European Union to make sure that we 've get all the check and safeguard in place prevent the development of the disease . 

Processing delay force saleyard 's NLIS overhaul 
Processing delay of up to 24 hour have force Australia 's big saleyards to overhaul it National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) infrastructure . 
With 11,000 cattle on offer today , new in-pen scanning be be put to the test at the Roma Saleyards in Queensland . 
A year after NLIS become mandatory in the state , the saleyards ' board be scrap two run-through scanner worth $ 270,000 . 
While they read tag with 99 per cent efficiency , large volume of cattle mean even minor misreads could cause huge disruption . 
Brisbane-based company Livestock Link have be contract to pick up any miss tag and non-reader tag more efficiently , by pre-scanning cattle before sale in pen . 

Ethics campaigner push for teminator gene ban 
Gene ethic campaigner be lobby the Federal Government to ban the development of terminator technology in Australia . 
The process would stop seed from breed naturally , force farmer to buy new stock each year instead of grow their own . 
More than 10,000 people have sign a petition claim genetic engineering company will have monopoly power if the technology be introduce . 
The Government have say it will accept development application on a case-by-case basis . 
However , Bob Phelps from the GeneEthics Network say that be not acceptable . 
`` There 's clearly strong public sentiment that the terminator be not acceptable , '' he say . 
`` We 're submit those petition to the federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran and we 're say to the Australian Government we want you to align the Australian Government policy with the global view that it 's unacceptable and that the global ban on terminator should remain . '' 

VFF push for single wheat desk change 
The Victorian Farmers Federation ( VFF ) have join grow call for change to the single desk for wheat export , in the wake of the oil-for-food Inquiry . 
Under it plan , wheat exporter AWB Limited and AWB International would be split , with international wheat sale return to farmer control . 
The VFF will seek endorsement for the proposal from the Grains Council of Australia later this month . 
VFF grain group president Ian Hastings say the plan address concern about governance of the system , and payment to grower from the national wheat pool . 
`` We 're talk about separation of AWB International and make sure that AWB International continue to have the legislative monopoly for export of wheat , '' Mr Hastings say . 

Fodder export demand raise local price 
A booming export fodder market be good news for grower but farmer look to fee livestock in Australia be face high price and short supply . 
Lucerne price have almost double since November to around $ 300 a tonne , while hay price be up between $ 30 and $ 40 a tonne . 
Colin Peace , from the Fodder Industry Association , say drought in the US and Canada be help to boost export , at the expense of the domestic market . 
`` Those two market often clash for supply so I think you could anticipate that certainly continue , '' he say . 
`` There be always opportunity for stock that be destine for export to be divert for domestic demand . 

AWGA seek unified wool industry vision 
There be call today for a single vision for the wool industry , uniting research , development and commerical operation to pull it out of the current slump . 
The Australian Wool Growers Association ( AWGA ) say the industry 's four main body - Australian Wool Innovation , Australian Wool Services , the wool test authority , and wool exchange - be too inward-looking and duplicate service . 
AWGA chairman , Martin Oppenheimer , say industry leader should follow the lead of the sheepmeat industry , which turn it fortune around with a strategic plan 10 year ago . 
`` We 've get many different grower-owned or funded company and they 're all head off in their own direction , '' he say . 
`` They 've get different strategy . 

Truck crash prompt stock movement warn 
Police in New South Wales be warn driver to be more careful on country road , after a crash involve a cement truck and a mob of 5,000 sheep . 
The mob be be run along a stock route in the state 's central-west . 
Detective Senior Constable Andrew McGrath say police believe the driver ignore stock warning sign . 
`` A vehicle travel on a road about 15 kilometre from Condobolin collide with a mob of sheep that be be drive along the road , with 15 fatality , '' he say . 
`` The driver of the truck I believe will be issue with an infringement notice for fail to give way to stock . 
`` Because the condition have be so dry there be a lot of mob move around on the road so people should be wary when they be travel on country road . 

Nullabor pastoralists grant rent subsidy 
Pastoralists on the Nullarbor who be suffer through drought condition have be offer a sweetener by the West Australian Government . 
They have be tell they be not eligible for exceptional circumstance funding , but the Government will contribute $ 80,000 towards pastoral lease rent and agriculture protection rate . 
Pastoralist Rod Campbell say the money be welcome but pastoralists still believe they should be eligible for EC fund . 
`` We 're mystify about the criterion etc but I think the Minister 's address that very nicely , '' he say . 

Inquiry likely to recommend geosequestration : researcher 
Researchers believe a federal Parliament inquiry will help find funding for more project to stop greenhouse gas from coal , oil and gas field enter the atmosphere . 
The House of Representatives Science and Innovation Committee will investigate the benefit and risk of geosequestration , which be capture carbon dioxide from mining and store it underground for million of year . 
Trials be be carry out in Victoria 's Otway Basin and off the Western Australian coast . 
Dr Peter Cook , from the Co-operative Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies , say study be make progress . 
`` We 're very confident that that inquiry be go to endorse the use of this technology a one of the option for decrease CO2 emission , '' he say . 

Wine grape ethanol trial under way 
A 12-month trial produce ethanol from wine grape have begin in South Australia . 
Tarac Technologies in the Barossa Valley currently distill alcohol from winery waste . 
The company will supply South Australian Farmers Fuel with 100,000 litre of biofuel over the next 12 month . 
Spokesman Chris Zajac say it remain to be see if the process can be economically viable . 
`` The reason we 've decide to run the trial be to basically see how it perform against other ethanol in the marketplace , '' he say . 

Hayes to head international wine body 
An Australian have be name president of the peak international body represent winemaker and grapegrowers from 42 nation . 
Peter Hayes will head up the International Organisation for Wine and Vine for the next three year . 
The organisation set industry standard and regulation for all member country 
Mr Hayes , a director and former chief executive of the Grape and Wine Research Development Council , say he be take aback by his appointment . 
`` I find it a bit surprising quite frankly , but I think it be a sign of the time , '' he say . 

Consumers switch to Homebrand product 
New figure show Homebrand product like milk , sugar and butter already account for more than 50 per cent of sale through the major supermarket . 
Frozen and can Homebrand vegetable and dry fruit be also become more popular , accord to research by accountancy firm KPMG . 
Food processor be start to feel the pressure , a supermarket aim to fill one-third of their shelf with their own label . 
KPMG 's Adrian Arundell say the processing sector will shrink , a other brand disappear . 
`` Some of them be fight head on against it , some of them be actually work with it , '' he say . 

Tin mill 's closure to force can import 
In a further blow for the manufacturing industry , tin fruit and vegetable processor will have to import can from next year , after the closure of Australia 's only tin mill . 
High iron ore price have lead BlueScope Steel to shut it Port Kembla mill . 
That will force cannery to either import tin or look for alternative packaging . 
The head of the Food and Grocery Council , Dick Wells , say increase cost be put manufacture under a lot of pressure . 
`` People need to be aware that it 's tough all the way and there 's no easy life here , '' he say . 
`` If we 're not innovative in this country in look for way to take cost out of the structure and produce product that consumer see additional benefit in , then there wo n't be a future . '' 

Organic farmer eye overseas market 
The United States , Europe and South-East Asia be potential market for Australian-grown organic product , accord to a report launch last night . 
The report by the Rural Industries and Development Corporation look at the demographic of consumer , and what drive them to buy organic food . 
Andre Leu , from the Organic Federation of Australia , say in the long-term , China will be a major market , although Australia will struggle to compete with it domestic production . 
`` The late figure that we have from China show that their industry be worth $ US8 billion , which make them one of the large organic market in the world , '' he say . 

Farmers dispute Costello 's federalism reform plan 
The New South Wales Farmers ' Association be back Federal Treasurer Peter Costello in his criticism of Australia 's three-tiered system of government , but do not agree with his plan to change it . 
Mr Costello have trigger national debate on federalism , by want to wrestle all responsibility for utility and the economy from the state government , reduce them to branch office . 
Mal Peters , from the association , say give more power to Canberra be not the answer , and be call for full-scale reform of Australia 's system of government . 
`` Any further centralisation of power into New South Wales be not good , '' he say . 
`` I mean the close the government get to the people the good the government be , and that 's well recognise by all player in the state and federal sphere . 

'Iron Boomerang ' plan onshore iron ore processing 
The resource sector be investigate a $ 55 billion proposal to process iron ore in Australia from 2011 . 
The 'Iron Boomerang ' would be a privately-funded 3,000 kilometre railway to link iron ore deposit in Western Australia with coal field in north Queensland 's Bowen Basin . 
Blast furnace to be build at either end of the track would produce pig iron for the export market . 
An international trade delegation be tour the town of Bowen today to investigate the project . 
Shane Condon , from Project Iron Boomerang , say supply chain saving alone could be worth $ 2 billion per year . 
`` When train run empty and ship be come back from China , or in the Pilbarra , or in the coal field of Queensland , the return trip for these giant empty train and ship be 45 per cent of the total trip cost and that be highly inefficient and use fuel unnecessarily , '' he say . 

City vet student try country practice 
Veterinary student in Western Australia have trade the dog and cat of city practice for a stint on a remote cattle property in the Pilbara region . 
About 1,600 kilometre from Perth , Warrawagine Station be a long way from home for two vet student , who have never do any work with cattle before . 
But student Kate Louden say six week on 1 million acre station be a unique experience . 
`` I do n't realise quite how isolated the station be - 300 kilometre from the near shop , '' she say . 
`` We 've be muster so we 've be move the yard and draft the cattle from different block . 
`` [ We 've ] be up in the plane and the chopper a few time so it 's be great . 

Trucking industry look to recruit foreign driver 
The trucking industry want to start employ migrant worker , a driver shortage and an age workforce continue to cause problem . 
Current skilled migrant visa do not allow for truck driver but the Australian Trucking Association ( ATA ) be confident it can get the industry reclassify a a skilled occupation . 
The ATA 's Damien MacFarlane say it be a worldwide problem , and Australia will face competition from other country hop to recruit driver . 
`` You 'll find the United States and the United Kingdom be currently face the same challenge , '' he say . 
`` There 's many driver be poach from Australia and have go to either the United Kingdom or the United States to drive . 
`` It 's fine to say let 's go and get migrant driver , where be you go to get them from ? And that 's go to be the challenge . '' 

Dry condition see live sheep export jump 
Dry seasonal condition in Western Australia have see a massive jump in live sheep export from Fremantle . 
More than 330,000 sheep be ship out last month alone . 
John Edwards , from the WA Livestock Exporters Association , say there be a direct link between the increase and the weather . 
`` I guess farmer have sort of looked ahead of themselves a to availability of feed stock on farm and very little paddock feed , '' he say . 
`` They 've most probably make the decision to sell sheep early . 
`` Possibly we 've see a lot of sheep come out now rather than in the spring when they traditionally shear and sell off shear . '' 
Meanwhile , ease cattle price in the east be provide northern WA producer with competition in the live export trade . 
Tony Cooling , from Landmark in Broome , say Queensland producer be now sell stock overseas . 
`` Queensland price have come back a bit , so live export be now compete with the domestic market over there , '' he say . 

'Beef only ' cattle grant entry to Qld 
Queensland have open it border to cattle from Victoria and the BJD control zone in New South Wales , as long a it 's class a `` beef only '' . 
The state have previously ban cattle due to concern over the disease bovine Johne 's . 
Cattle which have not be run with dairy cow for five year , or graze on land which have run dairy cattle within 12 month , will meet the classification . 
Michael McCormack , from the Cattle Council , say it 's a successful outcome . 
`` Especially for southern producer it 's a good news story , '' he say . 

Canada continue mad cow test 
Canadian authority be continue test on a suspected sixth case of mad cow disease ( BSE ) . 
The cow be bear before feed ban be put in place in 1997 , and be discover under new surveillance program . 
Final test be due next week . 

Frost hit Riversun 's US export 
A company export citrus fruit to the United States say shipment be likely to drop 20 per cent this season , due to frost damage in the Murray Valley , Riverland and Riverina . 
Riversun chairman Peter Walker say supermarket in the US be aware of the damage to the Victorian and South Australian crop , but he be confident sale will not be affect . 
`` It 's one of the transparency that Riversun have , '' he say . 
`` It go out and tell the customer base that we have procedure and policy in place and it 's adhere to them . 
`` If it 's minus two for more than four hour property be put into suspension until they be assess to see if there be any damage on that property , so we 've explain that to supermarket and they be all still on board . '' 

Dairy farmer form collective bargaining group 
Tasmanian dairy farmer who supply food giant National Foods have form the state 's first collective bargaining group . 
About 30 farmer have come together to negotiate future supply and price contract . 
The chairman of the group , Kem Perkins say the move be inevitable . 
`` It 's the only way we could go to negotiate a price because under the rule and the law these day you ca n't negotiate price a an individual , '' he say . 
`` You ca n't even put in on the agenda when you have a supplier ' group meeting so the way we 've set it up ... mean that we can talk to any company , negotiate with any company and we can take on board any supplier that conform to the condition . '' 
One of the first job for the bargaining group will be to negotiate extra time for next season 's price talk . 

Renewable fuel plant near completion 
Work on the nation 's big renewable fuel plant in Darwin be almost complete . 
Natural Fuels Australia will import Malaysian palm oil to produce biodiesel later this year . 
Charles Darwin University be commission to compare traditional diesel with a 20 per cent biodiesel blend . 
Researcher Mark Thiele say emission be reduce . 
`` Carbon dioxide emission go up slightly but primarily because of the reduction in hydro carbon and carbon monoxide , '' he say . 
`` We also do n't actually notice very much difference in power or torque . 
`` Particularly at the 20 per cent blend , which be what we be test , be only about 1 per cent . '' 
But Mr Thiele say it be not clear how sustainable it will be to import palm oil . 
`` From a sustainability perspective it 's probably a little bit more complicated , '' he say . 
`` We have to look at the whole cycle of biodiesel production and the feed stock . 
`` It be really outside the scope of the research work that we do . '' 

Mary River dam decision outrage farmer 
Farmers near Gympie remain outraged with the Queensland Government , despite it decision to scale back the size of a propose new dam on the Mary River . 
Premier Peter Beattie initially plan a 660,000 megalitre dam , which would have consume almost 1,000 property . 
But he now say a small dam will be build , with the resumption of 500 property . 
Under the three-stage plan , the dam wall would be raise if more water be need in 2035 . 
But local at a public meeting to hear the detail be furious , say they will be leave in limbo for 30 year . 
`` I 've be live here 30 year and be wait to retire , '' one say . 
`` I 'd be retire one week when he drop this bombshell . '' 
Another resident say : `` Some people in stage one will get buy out there 's no doubt if they proceed , and so they 've divide the community even more . 
`` And they leave these people in stage two to whither on the vine . '' 

Competition will cut farmer ' market share : study 
A new report say in the next 10 year Australian farmer will lose market share to develop country like China , Brazil and India . 
The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) and the United Nations have compare 15 commodity . 
They have find that a develop nation increase production and become more competitive , country like the US , EU and Australia will lose out in world agricultural trade . 
Australian export of sugar , beef , rice and pigmeat will be hard hit , with less impact on wheat and poultry . 
Trade analyst Peter Gallagher say although world trade rule will play a part , global export competition be on the rise . 
`` The world be not beat a path to our door look for primary product , '' he say . 
`` The opportunity for Australia be now go to be much more in the process food area and in the fresh food and ingredient area . 
`` It be important that we realise many develop country be become more effective producer of primary product and we need to look at the structure of our own production for the future . '' 

Apple grower look to boost productivity 
Australian apple grower be investigate way to make their orchard more efficient , to compete with the low production cost of other country . 
The industry will set up 60 trial site around the country to compare different planting style . 
The chairman of Apple and Pear Australia , Darral Ashton , say one option be to double the number of tree per hectare , use dwarf root stock . 
`` The tree do n't take the usual say four or five year to come into production - they come into production very easily , '' he say . 
`` Because you have so many tree per hectare , each tree do n't have to carry so many apple to get that high production per hectare . 

Climate change threaten blackcurrant industry 
There be a warning today that Tasmania 's niche blackcurrant industry be under threat from global warming . 
Plant pathologist Steve Wilson say there have be a progressive drop in yield over the past 15 year because of a sharp increase in extremely cold night . 
Mr Wilson be trialing other black currant variety in an attempt to boost yield , but say he be not hopeful . 
`` This , I think , may be the canary in the coal mine , '' he say . 
`` It be show that climate change can impact on commercial crop . 
`` w We 've often think of climate change a something that can impact on natural population , but here it be have quite a distinct impact , quite a distinct economic one , on a small industry . '' 

Copper find excite stock market investor 
A small copper explorer have shoot out of obscurity after discover rich vein of the metal near Cloncurry , in north-west Queensland . 
Shares in Australian Mining Investment shot from 29 cent seven week ago to a top of $ 10 yesterday , turn it into a billion-dollar company . 
It say drilling at it Rocklands copper deposit be continue around the clock to fee the stock market more news . 
Hartley 's mining expert Rob Brierley say little be know so far about the Rocklands deposit . 
`` Not very much at all - I think that 's what capture the imagination of the market , '' he say . 
`` In fact it 's really be a meteoric rise . 
`` There be a long way for this company to go , but it 's great to see that a discovery can still capture the imagination of the investment public . '' 
Shares in Australian Mining Investment be in a trading halt . 

Korean missile test boost oil price 
The price of crude oil have hit a record high in the United States overnight after North Korea launch a series of missile into the Sea of Japan . 
The price of crude oil settle at a $ US75.19 a barrel . 
The price of gold and silver be also affect . 

Coles back inland rail link proposal 
Coles Myer have back plan for an inland rail link between Brisbane and Melbourne but supporter of the project say that be not enough to get it off the ground . 
The head of the Australian Transport and Energy Corridor , Everald Compton , say government will be the key to the $ 4 billion rail network . 
Coles Myer have lodge a submission to a Productivity Commission inquiry into the nation 's freight system , say the inland project would help to make rail more efficient . 
But Mr Compton say it be now in the hand of government . 
`` The Coles Myer thing wo n't make any difference because other people have say that before , '' he say . 
`` For instance , Woolworths say it some year ago and government take no notice of them . '' 

Snowy inquiry head attack 'secrecy culture ' 
The head of a New South Wales Government inquiry into ongoing public ownership of the Snowy Hydro-Electric Scheme say he be try to break down a culture of secrecy within the authority . 
A propose $ 3 billion float of the state and federal-owned power and irrigation provider be scuttle in the wake of public protest last month . 
At a hearing in the Snowy Mountains town of Cooma yesterday , inquiry chairman Gordon Moyes say he hear evidence of a systematic , long-term lack of transparency by Snowy Hydro . 
`` There 's be an absolute failure in term of communication , not just recently , it 's be a culture that 's come to u from evidence for at least 20 year , '' he say . 
`` Who tell them not to communicate , who actually authorise the change in nature of the company 's business ? 
`` They be very significant and important question and will determine the result of the inquiry . '' 
The final report be due on October 27 . 

Sea ranger meet in Arnhem Land 
One hundred sea ranger from more than 14 different language group across Arnhem Land be meet this week , at the Aboriginal community of Maningrida , 550 kilometre from Darwin . 
Aboriginal land make up 85 per cent of the Territory coastline and while the conference be an opportunity to share skill and idea , the main focus be find a secure funding to continue their work . 

Kulukuk farm mud crab trial breed success 
A Darwin Aboriginal community have succeed in grow out it first farm mud crab , a part of a commercial trial . 
So far 600 crab weigh an average of 350 gram have be sell to wholesaler . 
The trial be part of a Commonwealth Government Shared Responsibility Agreement . 
The Kululuk farm employ eight people , include traditional owner Jacqueline Treves . 
`` We seem to be one of the first people in Darwin to grow our own mud crab farm , '' she say . 
`` Now that we have get one , we just want to make it work for u and our child . 
`` It 's important because we want good job for young Indigenous people and for our own child . 

Country woman gather for field day 
Almost 150 woman make their way to Buntine in the West Australian Wheatbelt for the annual Liebe Women 's field day yesterday . 
Those who attend say it be a good opportunity to get away from the farm and socialise with other farm woman who be also struggle with the dry start to 2006 . 
`` These sort of day be even more important when you realise you 're actually not alone and that everybody 's go through the same pain , '' say Sally Lee from the Wubin district . 

US grower slam 'sham ' Australian wheat deal 
US Wheat Associates have accuse Australia of put together a sham deal to sell wheat to Iraq . 
Loading have begin in Geelong of the first shipment of wheat to Iraq since a ban be impose on trade with AWB earlier this year . 
US Wheat Associates claim the Wheat Australia consortium 's 350,000 tonne contract be just a way for AWB to get around the ban . 
It accuse AWB of sell to Iraq from it wheat pool through the consortium . 
Rebecca Coleman say AWB still control the pricing . 
`` We think that the Wheat Australia situation be pretty much a shell game , a sham and a way that allow for AWB to continue to funnel wheat to Iraq and avoid the sanction that be currently in place , '' she say . 
Ms Coleman say Iraq be now one of the US 's top 10 wheat customer . 

Dry weather hit WA grain harvest 
Western Australian broadacre farmer could be confront one of their bad harvest season in history , after another month of warm and unseasonably dry condition . 
The state 's grain handler and marketer , Co-operative Bulk Handling , have earlier predict that summer subsoil moisture would help produce a crop of around 11 million tonne , despite an historically dry start to winter . 
But operation manager David Fienberg say the entire state 's yield could now be as low a 7 million tonne . 
`` What we 're concern about be keep farmer on farm and of course that directly relate to their profitability and of course that come from volume , '' he say . 
`` My gut feeling be that lupin be go to be considerably down compare to where they might have be give that early break in summer , I think canola also go to be substantially down . '' 

Poor harvest send farmer to other job 
As the dry spell continue in Western Australia , young farmer be already start to consider their option off-farm . 
Many farmer be opt not to put a crop in this year . 
Wes Teakle , from Northampton , be go to build shed because there be no money to be make on the land this year . 
`` I know of half a dozen guy , just off the top of my head , that be do the same thing that I 'm do and look for alternate work , '' he say . 
`` Unfortunately there 's not enough room for all of u in a small town like Northampton or Geraldton . 

Cowra abattoir clear over sacking 
The Cowra abattoir in New South Wales have be clear over it decision to dismiss 29 employee under the new WorkChoices law , and re-hire some under a different award . 
The Office of Workplace Services have find the company do not break the new law , and it action would still have be lawful under the old legislation . 
The Federal Government say it have be vindicate by the ruling . 

Anderson urge to put off retirement 
Former deputy prime minister John Anderson be reportedly be urge by the National Party to shelve his retirement plan , to try to stop his federal seat from be abolish . 
The Nationals say the Australian Electoral Commission 's plan to merge the Gwydir electorate with Parkes in New South Wales be an attack on country Australia . 
As well a urge the commission to hear community concern firsthand , Gwydir Electorate Council chairman , Mark Coulton , want people of all political persuasion to lobby against the proposal . 
`` John make the point yesterday that if he be still the deputy prime minister , would Gwydir have be abolish ? '' he say . 
`` I think everyone know the answer would be no , so whether John stay or not be a different issue . 
`` A simple solution like that I think we 're too far down the track for that . '' 

Commonwealth urge to heed environmental management survey 
The first survey of how farmer be manage the environment show more than 90 per cent be undertake improvement work . 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics research also show most farmer consider weed , pest and native vegetation to be their big concern . 
Farmer group say the finding should influence the Federal Government , which be decide how to fund natural resource management . 
Corey Watts , from the Conservation Foundation , say a range of factor influence the amount of time and money farmer spend on conservation work . 
`` A lot have to do with the ability of people to be able to receive the kind of resource that they need to plan and undertake work at different scale , '' he say . 
`` Drought be a big one - a number of part of the country be in drought and that really do stuff up people 's ability to do what need to be do in the long-term . 

Rural Commodity Index rise 8pc 
Agricultural commodity price remain strong , with the Westpac-National Farmers Federation Rural Commodity Index up nearly 8 per cent compare to this time last year . 
Dairy be the only sector which have fall below last year 's level . 
In the past month , barley , canola , cotton and wool have go up , with small fall in sugar and beef . 
Justin Smirk , from Westpac , say while price be pretty good at the moment , next year could be a different story if the world economy slow down . 
`` However , a you move into 2007 , those positive price response will mean you 'll get a supply response , '' he say . 
`` In addition , with interest rate around the world rising , do suggest it will be a soft year . 

Rig demand delay geosequestration trial 
Researchers say the first Australian trial of technology to try to trap greenhouse gas underground be be delay . 
The $ 30 million geosequestration project in south-west Victoria aim to test whether carbon dioxide from coal burn power station and gas mining can be store underground . 
The Federal Government have fund the project a one of it preferred way of combat climate change . 
The project 's leader , Dr Peter Cook , say preliminary test be be carry out but he do not expect to be able to start pump carbon dioxide underground until next year . 
`` A lot of people want to drill for oil at the moment so it 's a bit hard to get rig , '' he say . 
`` Also it 's a constraint on u that cost have generally go up . 
`` We 're not a major company , we 're a research organisation with limited fund so we have to be rather careful the way that we use those fund . 

Cattle killer think highly organise 
Police in Western Australia suspect there may be an organised network kill pastoral cattle to sell their meat . 
Seven cow have be report butcher on Pilbara station in the past month , and police believe there may be more which have not be report . 
Pastoralist Richard Climas , from Mardie Station 150 kilometres west of Karratha , say cattle theft be become a regular occurrence . 
`` I 've find a few carcass , generally only the leg and hide leave , and they 've take the whole lot , '' he say . 
`` It happen quite often . A good bull at the moment be probably worth $ 600 , $ 700 a beast , it add up pretty quick . 
`` What else be they do while they 're out there ? 
`` If they 're brazen enough to kill a beast what else be they go to be do while they 're out and about ? 
`` We 've have solar panel steal and all sort of stuff steal . '' 
Further north in the Kimberley , the state 's stock squad say there have be significant cattle theft over the past 12 month . 

Cane smut find on 30 property 
Sugar cane smut have now be find on 30 farm in the Childers area of south-east Queensland . 
The disease , which can cause major crop loss , be find for the first time on the east coast less than a month ago . 
Chris Adriaanson , from Queensland 's Department of Primary Industries , say the disease will not be eradicate . 
He say in the future , farmer will have to rely on resistant crop variety to eliminate the impact of the disease . 
`` It depend on what you define a eradication , '' he say . 
`` If eradicating mean biologically extinguish the disease , then that 's never be the objective , it 's not part of the way we have to do this business . 

Abattoir closure to impact on livestock producer 
Livestock producer in South Australia 's north say they will be hit by high freight cost , after the closure of Conroy 's abattoir at Port Pirie . 
The plant close on Friday and sell to T and R Pastoral , which have no plan to reopen it in the short-term . 
One hundred people be employ at the abattoir . 
Sandy Morris from Yardea Station in the Gawler Ranges say it will cost him up to $ 5 a head more to send stock to the meatworks at Murray Bridge instead . 
`` The impact on u will be that we wo n't have the option to send them to Pirie which be the close abattoir for u , '' he say . 
`` We 'd have to send them on to Murray Bridge , which would be double the amount of freight . 
`` I 'm not quite sure how far Murray Bridge would be from Pirie but it would have to be another 250 [ kilometre ] I 'd imagine . Probably look at something like $ 2.50- $ 5.00 . '' 
Meanwhile an abattoir at Stanthorpe , in southern Queensland , say it have to temporarily shut down this morning after temperature drop to -20 . 
The Bureau of Meteorology have report temperature of minus six at nearby Warwick and Applethorpe . 
John Allan from Don Allan and Co say the abattoir 's hot water system froze . 
`` We still have n't start work because the cold outside freeze the pressure of the steam inside our steam valve , '' he say . 
`` It just blow from sheer pressure , so that 's let all the steam out now , so we have to replace that now . 

Australians crave roast dinner : anthropologist 
A visiting anthropologist claim the Australian love of a good roast dinner be healthy and in our gene . 
Dr Lionel Tiger be be sponsor by Meat and Livestock Australia , which have run a campaign link human brain evolution to the consumption of meat . 
Dr Tiger say a survey have find 78 per cent of Australians rate a roast a among their all-time favourite meal and it be a more natural craving than those for sugar and fat-rich process food . 
`` Australian beef be grass-fed and a lot of the hostility to beef depends in part on the American style of make beef which be grain-fed and therefore much fatty , '' he say . 

Citrus grower set to export to China 
Strict quarantine measure have finally be agree upon to send citrus fruit into China , with the first export due to leave later this month . 
Growers have hop China would help solve some of Australia 's oversupply problem , but Judith Damiani say it be not yet know how much fruit will be export this year . 
Ms Damiani say price be also uncertain . 
`` The quarantine requirement make it fairly difficult to put a lot of volume of fruit into that China market , '' she say . 
`` So we will have to start very slowly , we 'll have to do some trial shipment initially and after two year we will have to look at amend the protocol and make it easy to ship there . '' 
Richie Roberts from Renmark say his fruit company will start pack fruit for China early next week . 
`` We 're very keen to get several container to China just to test the market because there 's so much work that the industry 's put in to get access , '' he say . 

Wine export jump 
Wine export jump 12 per cent during the last financial year but price suffer , accord to new figure from the Wine and Brandy Corporation . 
Seven hundred and thirty eight million litre be export , with winery sell a large amount of bulk wine to reduce surplus stock . 

Cotton property fail to sell 
Two large multi-million dollar cotton property in south west Queensland have fail to sell at auction . 
The Queensland Government have plan to buy the farm to return water to the Murray Darling Basin , but withdraw because it do not have the support of the New South Wales or Federal Governments . 
The property , Clyde and Ballandool , with water licence total 58,000 megalitres be expect to make about $ 60 million at auction on Friday . 
Ballandool be pass in at $ 20 million , while Clyde be still under negotiation at $ 27 million . 
Ian Cush from the New South Wales Irrigators Association say the property have little stored water and grower could not afford to invest and not have a return . 

Code of conduct for pig welfare criticise 
The animal right group Voiceless have criticise the Federal Government 's draft code of conduct for pig welfare , claim it be inaccurate and limit public consultation . 
Voiceless say the propose code invite the public to make submission through a survey which restrict objection to thing like sow stall . 
Spokeswoman Katrina Sharman say the code also incorrectly claim other country have no plan to phase out sow stall , which be inhibit public debate . 
`` The regulatory impact statement which accompany the code suggest in Denmark , which be a major competitor to Australia 's pig meat market , there be no plan to phase out sow stall , '' she say . 

Grain production forecast down 
Strong global wheat price be the only bright spot for grower at the moment , with production forecast down right around the country . 
Queensland have all but give up on it winter wheat , it be a similar case in WA , while New South Wales and Victoria be do it tough , with weed the late threat to young crop . 
It be a gloomy picture right around the country , with South Australia the only state expect to deliver a reasonable harvest . 
But grain analyst Lloyd George say with international stock expect to tighten , good price should continue . 

Dry Seasons Advisory Committee activate 
With Western Australia struggle through it dry start to winter on record , the State Government have activate it Dry Seasons Advisory Committee . 
To be form this week , the committee will include farm body , farm management consultant , rural business and local and state government . 
Dexter Davies will again chair the committee , which last operate between 2000 and 2002 , and say there be a range of area to be address . 
`` Identify the bad area , thing like health service , the education service , all the basic service to make sure that we 've get enough there and people have get somewhere to turn to very early in the piece , '' he say . 

Chapman Valley victorious in Powder Puff footy match 
When time be tough it be even more important to have a laugh and there be plenty on hand at the annual Powder Puff footy match in WA 's Chapman Valley at the weekend . 
The game pit the Valley girl against the Northampton girl in front of a bid crowd of local farmer . 
Abbey Langley of Northampton kick a ripper goal on the siren and explain how it all happen . 
`` One of our player high tackle a Chapman Valley girl and they go to kick it and I be just in the right spot at the right time , '' she say . 
`` And I mark it . I do n't know how far I be out , but I think I be n't go to get it . 
`` But I think I 'd well have a crack at it on the siren . So yeah , it be pretty funny . It 's good fun . '' 

Organiser please with beef auction price 
Central Australian beef have attract record price at a weekend auction at the Alice Springs Show . 
The champion steer carcass , from the Holt family of Delny Station , sell for $ 6.70 a kilogram . 
Competition organiser Nicole Hayes say she be surprise that so many drought-hit pastoralists support the auction . 
`` Considering the season , we be pleased with that , '' she say . 
`` We have to support it so you have sort of got to put in what you have get and consider how dry it be at home , it 's good to see . 
`` We just have n't get the cattle that we would have have in previous year . Our number be go to be right down , especially for next year . 
`` There 's not many little calf around which be a bit unfortunate but it 's as good a we can do . 

Apple grower take advantage of Italian World Cup win 
Apple orchardists in central western New South Wales be already try to take advantage of this morning 's World Cup win by Italy . 
Italian-born , but proud Australian orchardist Guy Gaeta say he be look for white apple to blend with his fruit . 
`` We have get red and green apple I suppose but unfortunately we have n't get any white one , '' he say . 

Ship owner back move for cheap foreign worker 
Ship owner say the late move to replace Australian crew member with foreign worker be important for the competitiveness of our export . 
Crew member from the MV Stolt , currently dock in Hobart , be refuse to load the tanker in protest at plan to re-flag the vessel and replace them . 
But Llew Russell from Shipping Australia Limited say it be cheap to use foreign worker and the trend be likely to continue . 
`` We certainly support viable and competitive Australian flag ship but this should not be in term of inhibit our overseas competitiveness , '' he say . 

Farm quarantine after BJD find 
Just when many farmer in Western Australia think the season could not get any bad , there have be confirmation of a fatal wasting disease in a cattle herd . 
The Department of Agriculture and Food say a farm near Albany in the state 's Great Southern , have be place under quarantine , in a bid to prevent further spread of bovine Johne 's disease ( BJD ) . 
The state 's BJD-free status be now under threat . 
Chief vet Dr Peter Buckman say an extensive testing process be now under way to try to trace beef cattle which have be sell off the farm in the past decade . 

Mining company share continue trading halt 
Shares in Australian Mining Investment remain in a trading halt because of concern over whether the company have disclose enough information to the stockmarket . 
The Queensland explorer shot from obscurity last week when it share jump 2,000 per cent after it discover rich vein of copper at it Rocklands deposit near Cloncurry . 
However , Hartley 's resource expert Rob Brierley say the Australian Securities and Investment Commission be now query whether the drill result meet market standard . 

Govt urge to rework fuel tax bill 
There be claim today that the Federal Government 's complex fuel tax bill could spell the end of the biofuels industry . 
The renewable fuel sector say investor be be turn away because the bill have reduce it access to the market since it introduction on July 1 . 
Bob Gordon from Renewable Fuels Australia say the Federal Government need to go back to the draw board to make the legislation fairer . 
`` Unlike the rest of the world which be surge ahead with biofuels industry growth and all of those country that have emerge biofuel industry have high tariff regime to protect them against import until they 're establish in the market , '' he say . 
`` Australia be go in the opposite direction . Progress be go to freeze in Australia , if not bad . '' 
A Victorian dairy company say with the a grow number of biofuel project on the draw board , company will have to convince the Federal Government to offer tax incentive . 
John McLean from the Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory say his company want to use bio-gas from it cheesemaking operation a a dual fuel for it milk tanker . 

VFF group call for restructure 
There be call today for a major restructure of the Victorian Farmers Federation ( VFF ) . 
The VFF 's livestock group say it membership have fall from 6,000 to 3,000 and it may no longer be able to afford representation on peak industry body like the Sheepmeat Council . 
Group president Ailsa Fox say the VFF need to change the way it allocate it budget . 
`` There 's two way of deal with this question , whilst we need more fund , our executive officer identify that there be perhaps resource that could be share a lot well within the organisation , '' she say . 

Sheep theft may lead to more livestock truck check 
Police on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula say they may resort to check every livestock truck on the region 's road after a grow number of sheep theft . 
About 1,200 sheep have be report stolen this year , include 250 head from near Wudinna this week . 
Senior-Sergeant Paul Roberts say all peninsula police station have be alert . 
`` It may well be that we want the staff to stop all stock crate that be move throughout the local service area and along the highway , '' he say . 

US wheat farmer sue AWB 
Six American wheat farmer have launch a class action against AWB in the United States , claim the wheat exporter 's dealing in overseas market damage their own income . 
According to medium report , the US wheat farmer be allege AWB engage in a global campaign of racketeering , money laundering , fraud and bribery . 
While some of the allegation relate to the Iraq market , others relate to deal in Yemen , Pakistan and Indonesia . 
The US farmer be argue for million of dollar in compensation , claim AWB 's action result in them be exclude from certain wheat market and damage their economic interest . 
But law Professor Richard Garnett say even if the action be successful , there be doubt about whether AWB in Australia could be financially liable . 
`` We do n't generally recognise judgment from foreign country which be punitive or design to punish defendents , we only recognise judgment which be compensatory , where a sum of money be provide in compensation for loss , '' he say . 
AWB , which have not yet be serve with the writ , say the action be ill conceive and the company will vigorously defend any claim . 
Meanwhile the first shipment of 350,000 tonne of grain through the Wheat Australia consortium be expect to set sail for Iraq this week . 
But AWB International say if there be a new tender to supply Iraq it would prefer to strike the deal itself . 
The Iraqi Grains Board have refuse to deal with AWB because of it involvement in the oil-for-food scandal . 
But AWB International chairman Ian Donges be hop for a change of heart . 
`` We 'll wait for that tender of course and we 'll be talk to Iraq in term of whether the ban still apply to AWB firstly , '' he say . 

CSIRO begin research grape quality potential 
New equipment be be develop to measure the potential quality of grape before they be harvest . 
The CSIRO have be research the link between grape and the quality of the wine they produce , use chemical and sensory analysis . 
It be hop the research can be use to develop bio-sensor technology , which will be use to test grape at the vineyard or weighbridge . 
CSIRO scientist Dr Aggie Cox say that should help grower receive fairer price . 
`` What we 're basically try to do be look for thing that we can measure to be able to tell u what sort of wine those grape can produce , '' he say . 
`` And the reason we 're do that be to try and make the wine a lot more consistent so the winemaker have some sort of idea of what that parcel of grape be potentially able to produce in the end . 

Beekeepers discuss industry 's future 
Australia 's leading beekeeper be in Launceston today discuss the challenge of fall honey price and the grow threat of disease . 
It be estimate that the beekeeping industry be worth $ 1.7 billion to Australian agriculture , and at today 's meeting , apiarist from around the country be decide how best to allocate the annual half-a-million-dollar research and development budget to protect the future of the industry . 
Chief among concern be the threat of the verroa mite , which have already decimate the US industry and be find in New Zealand 's South Island just three week ago . 

Mahogony timber harvest head for floorboarding 
The first commercial timber harvest from far north Western Australia be destine to be floorboarding for Perth 's housing boom . 
Indian sandalwood be suppose to be grow in the Ord River pilot project , but the tree be take over by african mahogany , with 300 hectare now harvest . 
Max Correy from the Kimberley Timber Company say the mahogany tree seem to enjoy the irrigated growing condition . 
`` All the other mahogany plantation , which have more or less be trial plantation be all dry-land , '' he say . 
`` And of course they be look at two to two and a half , maybe three time the growth time frame that we be . 

Wwoofers on the increase in Aust 
Australia now have the large number of wwoofers in the world . 
The term wwoofing stand for `` willing worker on organic farm '' where traveller help with farmwork in exchange for food and board . 
Australia have around 11,000 wwoofers work on 1,600 farm each year . 
Jordyn Rettinger , a 22-year-old from Ontario in Canada say it be a great way to see the world . 

Fungi use in weed kill trial 
Scientists be close to understand how native fungi can kill introduce weed across northern Australia . 
Trials in north Queensland have identify 10 variety of fungi which have be cause dieback in parkinsonia , a weed which threaten 75 per cent of Australia 's north . 
Victor Galea from the University of Queensland say it be unusual to find a native organism that can be use a a cheap biological control agent . 
`` We suspect that a lot of these fungi which be in the soil be adapt to live in that situation and parkinsonia be not adapt so well , '' he say . 

Wool price increase predict 
Some good news for the wool industry today , with analyst tip good price increase in the second half of the year . 
Retail demand be down in key market like the United States and Japan , but economic condition in most wool consuming country be forecast to improve , which should see sale pick up . 
With most Australian auction centre enter the winter recess , chief economist at Woolmark , Chris Wilcox , say confidence for the rest of the year be high . 
`` We would expect to see a similar price gain to what we 've see in the first six month , '' he say . 
`` It be a fairly positive outlook , in fact Woolmark business survey result , the last survey we do be the most positive we 've see in nearly five year . And I think we 'll see more of that in the come few month . '' 
Meanwhile , the late figure from Australian Wool Innovation show wool production be set to fall away in Western Australia by about 7 per cent over the next year , with a minor increase in the eastern state . 
Although dry condition be affect most of the country , sheep number be not expect to decline any further . 

Study show more severe drought ahead for Aust 
New research into the sun suggest eastern Australia could face more severe drought over the next 500 year . 
A study at the University of New England in New South Wales have show a link between solar cycle and rainfall pattern , which can be use in conjunction with the southern oscillation index to more accurately predict drought . 
Associate Professor Robert Baker say few sunspot or cold patch on the surface of the sun may mean the eastern state be head for dry time in the long term . 

Live export industry generate $ 1.8b a year 
The live export industry be fight back against animal right activists with an industry back survey release today detail the part it play in the national economy . 
Live export have be under attack from activist for some year and the Federal Government have ban export to some Middle East country follow animal cruelty concern . 

Lamb exporter release new contract condition for producer 
A major Western Australian lamb exporter admit it have take a risky step by negotiate new contract for the heavy lamb market in North America . 
In recognition of the hard winter across the southern half of the state , meat marketing co-operative WAMMCO have release new contract condition for producer , allow for lambs two kilogram lighter . 
Chief executive Des Griffiths say the main challenge be to help producer to continue sell their lamb , despite the lack of winter feed and also hold on to the lucrative export market . 
`` In Western Australia particularly , we 're at risk of lose it because in the eastern state if they have a reasonable season , the product be available out of there , '' he say . 

US wheat future jump 
United States wheat future jump a further 3 per cent last night follow grow concern about their spring wheat crop . 
Contracts on Chicago out until December 2008 have also jump to nearly $ US5.00 a bushel , well above the current spot price . 
Dougal Hunter , from the Australian Stock Exchange , say this point to good domestic price for the next three harvest . 
`` There 's no doubt the high price out in the deferred month , particularly 2007 and 2008 for Chicago have present selling opportunity both on swap and on the ASX , '' he say . 
`` On the ASX at the moment the January contract for mill wheat settle at $ 218 . 

Cattlemen claim best season in year 
Cattlemen south-west of Darwin be hail their best season in year . 
The heavy wet season have see a grow number of cattle be fatten in the Douglas Daly region . 
Producer Ian Mcbean say the condition should see an increase in the number of cattle go into the territory 's live export trade . 
`` It be definitely the best season I have ever see in the 50 odd year I have be in the Territory , really good grow season , '' he say . 

States look to align illegal fishing law 
Queensland , Western Australia and the Northern Territory be look at align their law to tackle illegal fishing , a part of a joint effort to tackle the problem . 
The Federal Government have also agree to fund a pilot project , examine the role of Indigenous sea ranger in coastal surveillance . 
But Peter Cassells , from International Fisheries , say ultimately there will not be a need for ranger to help because the Government want to stop illegal fisherman before they reach Australian territorial water . 
`` I mean in an ideal world illegal fisher will not get through to the coastal strip , '' he say . 

Cherry grower urge to support levy increase 
Cherry grower say they be face a tough season , with a lack of overseas market and a forecast heavy crop . 
New fruit fly protocol in Taiwan have close that market and grower can not get fruit into China , the US or New Zealand . 
The industry now want to increase it levy from one to eight cent a kilogram to fund research and development , marketing and promotion . 
Trevor Ranford from Cherry Growers Australia hop most grower will support the change . 
Efforts have begin to tackle fruit fly outbreak on a national basis for the first time . 
In the past , control the pest have be leave up the state , but the horticulture sector believe there need to be a more coordinated approach . 
Plant Health Australia spokesman Kyle Thoms say there will be a meeting in Canberra next month to kick off the effort . 
`` There 's be a lot of good work do that 's be do over many year across all of the state , but this be go to give u a chance , this national program , to bring all those player together , '' he say . 

Conference to focus on sustainability of Indigenous community 
The future of remote Indigenous community be in the spotlight at a national conference in Perth today . 
Across Australia , 250 delegate will attend the conference to look at how to make the community sustainable . 
Doctor Martin Anda from Murdoch University say they will not be focus on past failure , but look for the success story . 
`` [ We will be ] share idea together on exactly how we might formulate some of these new way forward to try bring more life and sustainability to some of these far-flung community , '' he say . 

Kangaroo skin hit fashion capital 
Kangaroo skin be be promote by designer and manufacturer in the fashion capital of the world . 
A company in Cairns which export up to 18,000 skin every two month to processor in Spain , France and Italy say the skin be make into everything from clothe to football . 
Exporter Ross Gates say the skin be prove popular because of it strength , repellent nature and pliability . 
`` Quite a number of the upmarket men 's shoe manufacturer be start to manufacturer their shoe from kangaroo , '' he say . 

US researcher to grow crop on Mars 
Researchers in the United States be run trial to see if crop can be grow on the planet Mars . 
NASA plan to send astronaut to Mars to set up a planetary base , a mission which could last at least three year . 
Researchers at the University of Florida be look at which crop might be grow hydroponically on the shuttle during the trial and also in greenhouse on Mars to provide food for the astronaut . 
Professor of food engineering Arthur Teixeira say result have be successful . 
`` I believe research be now available to show that we could probably rely on be able to grow certain variety of rice , dry bean , soy bean and sweet potato , '' he say . 

Mumbai train explosion behind gold price increase 
The price of gold jump $ 17 in New York overnight after a fatal train explosion rip through the financial district of Mumbai in India . 
Spot gold price settle at $ US643.10 an ounce , $ 80 below it record high in May this year . 

Instant TV message to alert remote community 
If you be live in remote Australia in the future , instant message with information from bushfire alert to doctor visit could pop up on your television . 
New research by the Desert Knowledge Cooperative Research Centre have show that the TV be almost always switch on in remote community and improved technology could make sure message get through . 
Dr Andrew Turk from Murdoch University say the technology would help to improve communication . 
`` From the result of our survey , TVs seem to be on pretty well all day , now whether people be watch them be another question , '' he say . 
`` But if we put a message a audio in Idigenous language , people pick up on that even if they 're not watch the set and they realise that be something of interest to them , rather than just the general chatter in English . 

Fuel price change rural lifestyle 
High fuel price be change how rural family live , with some drop child 's sport commitment and car pooling with neighbour . 
The late figure from the Bureau of Statistics show transport , food and grocery and recreation be the three big expense for rural household budget . 
Queensland beef producer Georgie Somerset believe country people spend more on recreation because they be spend more time on the farm . 
`` Perhaps there 's a sense there of 'well we 'll go and do this while it 's in town , or we 'll take up the opportunity to go to a performance ' , '' he say . 
`` If you 're not go to get away from where you live then you may as well make the most of what you 've get there and so yes I think there probably have be some more spending on thing like a DVD machine and a decent TV because they 're actually spend more week at home and less week away on holiday . '' 
The New South Wales Irrigators Council say it will withdraw support for the National Water Initiative , unless the federal and state government make radical change . 
The council 's chief executive , Doug Miell , say the initiative be `` off the rail '' and will place a huge financial burden on farmer and rural community . 

PM ask to slow down water trading 
Farmers in Victoria 's Goulburn Valley have call on the Prime Minister to slow down the pace of water trading in order to stop it destroy local farm . 
The Parliamentary Secretary responsible for water , Malcolm Turnbull , have meet farmer in Shepparton . 
They have tell him they can not compete for local water which be be send down the Murray to irrigate vineyard and almond farm , and that they enjoy tax break through manage investment scheme ( MIS ) . 
Mr Turnbull say he will raise the issue with Mr Howard . 
`` I 'll take back to the PM the concern that there be in the community , that the manage investment scheme have certain tax advantage , '' he say . 

Rural property value plateau 
Rural property value seem to have finally plateaued after rise by 70 per cent over the past five year . 
Elders rural property expert John Peden say the soft market be more a correction than a direct result of drought or low farm income . 
With uncertainty over water allocation , Mr Peden say there be less confidence in the irrigation sector , although the beef industry continue to boom . 
`` There be normally a slowing in sale volume during the winter . We be experience that at the present time , possibly a little more than in previous year , '' he say . 

Drought relief scheme extend 
There be good news today for 25 per cent of drought-hit farmer who rely on off-farm work to maintain an income . 
Last year the Federal Government relax aid rule , allow primary producer to earn up to $ 41,000 without affect their drought relief payment . 

Mining company confident of copper deposit discovery 
The director of mine company , CuDeco , remain confident they have find one of Australia 's big deposit of copper near Cloncurry in north-west Queensland . 
The company , which until yesterday be know a Australian Mining Investments , hit the headline after it share price jump from 29 cent to a high of $ 10 in seven week . 
Trading in share be suspend pending an investigation by the Australian Stock Exchange . 
Directors meet to reassure more than 30 shareholder in Cloncurry yesterday about the accuracy of the company 's exploration result . 
CuDeco chairman Wayne McCrae think they be sit on something big . 
`` We 'll put a resource out of 59 million tonne at 2 per cent and all the indication be [ that ] it just seem to be get big , '' he say . 

Wool quality and production on agenda of merino conference 
Around 900 delegate from across the globe be in Perth today for the World Merino Conference . 
Western Australian Farmers Federation spokesman Mike Norton say the late development in breeding and innovation , as well a wool quality and production , be on the agenda . 
He say it be excellent news to have so many people from around the world to attend a conference in Western Australia . 
`` You really do get a different perspective of your industry from the speaker a they come around the world on what 's happen , '' he say . 

Frost damage blame for drop in orange crop 
South Australia 's navel orange crop will be down by as much a 30,000 tonne due to frost damage . 
Industry official say the crop could come in at between just 45,000 and 50,000 tonne . 
Other variety include mandarin , lemon , tangelo and grape fruit have also suffer significant loss . 
Citrus Crop Estimates Committee spokesman Kym Thiel say more damage could still appear . 
`` For some individual there may be 100 per cent loss , for others it may only be a certain percentage , '' he say . 

Italian company double Aust wool purchase 
The wool industry be claim a win , follow news that Italian fashion giant Benetton will double it purchase of Australian wool over the next two year . 
Last year , animal right group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals end a nine month campaign to pressure Benetton to boycott Australian wool , over it concern about the practice of mulesing . 

Ad blitz to counteract animal liberation group campaign 
Australia 's peak livestock body be plan a national advertisting blitz to try to counter campaign against the live export trade be run by animal liberation group . 
Meat and Livestock Australia say consumer attitude to animal welfare be one of the big challenge face the industry . 
Meat and Livestock 's chairman Don Heatley say the campaign , which be already run in Western Australia , explain how exporter be try to improve welfare condition for livestock . 
`` We intend over a period of time lead up over the next six month to actually roll that out on a national basis across Australia , so that the community understand what we do , '' he say . 

Toxic weed could cost Qld million 
A new survey of a toxic weed be expect to show it be cost the Queensland livestock sector ten of million of dollar in stock loss . 
Agforce and the Department of Primary Industries have just launch a landholder survey of pimelea which have resurge because of dry condition in the western Darling Downs . 
The survey will be use to attact research funding to help landholder who do not have any way of cure affected stock . 

Investment need to control buffel grass : expert 
Control of the introduced pasture buffel grass be prove a major challenge across central Australian park . 
For the past 12 year , Sydney University student have assist Finke Gorge National Park ranger , south-west of Alice Springs . 
The control work involve hot fire and a new soil sterilant . 
An anonymous trust fund the majority of the work , but Professor Lester Burgess from the Faculty of Agriculture say there need to be continual investment . 
The overall program cost $ 10,000 each year . 
`` The buffel grass be continue to increase slowly overall in the park , but I think we have be quite successful in slow it in some area , no more than about 50 hectare and we have reasonably good control over a further 250 to 500 hectare , '' he say . 

Coal project to speed up approval 
A new coal project in central Queensland will receive help to speed up the Federal Government approval process . 
The Sonoma Coal Project near Collinsville have be elevate to national significance status , which mean government agency will provide support to cut down red tape . 

Fruit pick not for everyone , say grower 
Single parent , the long-term unemployed , old people and some disability pensioner could all be force to pick fruit under the Federal Government 's new welfare-to-work program . 
Under the guideline , anyone living within 90 minute of a harvest area can be eligible for fruit picking . 
Victorian grower Michael Tripodi say extra worker be welcome , but not everyone be cut out for the job . 
`` To come out on an orchard we have to see value for money in our employee also . It 's a bit hard for u to put someone on that wo n't work as hard a we expect them to work , '' he say . 
`` We 're start at daybreak and we 'll probably try and push through until two o'clock , once it get to 40 , 42-43 degree it 's bloody hot up here . 

Stakeholders discuss quarantine concern 
A top-level meeting be today discuss how Australia 's quarantine system can be improve . 
About 60 government and industry delegate have gather in Canberra to examine a range of concern . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) , which be facilitate the meeting , say the relationship between AQIS and Biosecurity Australia could be improve to ensure Australia 's competitive advantage in agriculture . 
While some stakeholder such a the New South Wales Farmers Association have express a need to combine the two quarantine authority , NFF president David Crombie say that be unnecessary . 
`` I think the really important thing be to make sure that we have the right people sit around the table when we 're put probability on the likelihood of occurrence and we have the right people sit around the table - and I include industry in that - of assess what the likely consequence be , '' he say . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the Federal Government have drop it defence to ensure an open and frank assessment of the system . 
`` It will be a free-wheeling discussion and there will be different point of view because not all of the many organisation present share entirely the same approach , '' he say . 

European snail find in Launceston 
A European snail have be find in Australia , discover on the outside of grain container in Launceston in northern Tasmania . 
Known a white snail , they arrive on container of lupin from Western Australia . 
Danny Reardon from Quarantine Tasmania say the situation be deal with quickly and he defend quarantine officer at the port of Fremantle , through which the snail apparently pass undetected . 
`` When you come to think about it , there 's hundred of thousand of container come into the country and there 's always a possibility that thing will get through the barrier , '' he say . 
`` It all depend on what stage the snail be at when they come in . They could 've be in the form of egg , they may not have be develop , they could have develop during the storage process there . 

Scant rainfall dash farmer ' hope 
A forecast of heavy rain have end in disappointment for South Australia 's northern pastoralists . 
The weather bureau be predict fall of up to 40 millimetre in some part , but most property get less than 20 . 
Tony Williams from Mt Barry Station near Oodnadatta say it be an anti-climax . 
`` There be a big build up to this one ... but it be a bit of fizzer , there be good fall north of Oodnadatta , handy fall , but south down our way we only have nine millimetre - so very disappointing , really , '' he say . 
`` It 's be eight month since we 've have a decent fall . 
`` Around 30 millimetre would have be nice but maybe next time . '' 
Meanwhile , grain farmer in north-west Victoria be hop the weather bureau 's prediction of rain this weekend be accurate . 
There be no subsoil moisture on some farm at Ouyen , some farmer have give up on sow crop , while others have significantly revise their plan . 
Farmer Dean Munro be not sure what be in store for the crop he plant eight week ago . 
`` The stuff that we do sow only about 20 or 30 per cent have actually come up , the rest of it be still in the ground , thing be look pretty grim , '' he say . 
`` This weekend 's probably the last roll of the dice for this crop I 'd say . 
`` If we do n't get substantial rain this weekend it 's certainly in a fair bit of trouble . '' 
But pastoralists in the Northern Territory have fare much well . 
Every district receive fall in the past 24 hour . 
In the Alice Springs district , most community and station receive between 10 and 20 millimetre , with 54 millimetre record at Hamilton Downs Station . 

Uranium drilling draw positive result 
Australia 's next uranium mine could be north-west of Alice Springs in central Australia . 
Deep Yellow , a Western Australian uranium exploration company , release positive result this week from it exploration drilling at Napperby Station , 150 kilometre from Alice Springs . 
Stockbroker Matthew Baker say that at just under half a pound per tonne report it could be economic . 
`` It 's still very early stage but if you 're look at uranium company , to me the angle be quite simple , '' he say . 
`` You look at them and say 'well I want one in the Territory because it do n't matter what the Government here say ' . 

ASX investigate junior mining company 
A second junior mining company , Frontier Resources , have come under the scrutiny of the Australian Stock Exchange ( ASX ) after it release exploration result that double it share price . 
Shares in Queensland copper explorer Cudeco remain in a trading halt , pending an investigation into drill result . 
One of the caveat on explorer release information to the market be that result must meet the standard of the joint ore reserve code . 
Don Larkin , from the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy , say geologist can be suspend for release misleading result to shareholder . 
`` If there be a breach of the code or if there be some question on the code the ASX will ask question behind the scene , '' he say . 

Wool estimate 'ambitious ' 
Elders national manager of wool say wool production forecast release this week be overly ambitious . 
Australian WooI Innovation have predict shorn wool production in Australia to stay relatively stable in the come year , with production tip to increase slightly in the eastern state , but fall in Western Australia . 

Dam task force chief meet local 
Former Queensland governor Major General Peter Arnison have begin meeting and inspection a head of south-east Queensland 's dam task force . 
Plans for a dam in the Mary Valley , south of Gympie , will see more than 500 property resume and a small dam have be propose for Wyaralong on the Logan River . 
Visiting the Mary River site yesterday , Maj Gen Arnison listen to local concern and be open to have more people on the task orce . 
`` We 're about try to get the broad possible understanding of what the issue be , '' he say . 
`` I think in term of the second phase of this which be look for a much good , bright economic and social future for the Mary Valley and Cooloola Shire . 

SAFF sell building to pay debt 
The South Australian Farmers Federation ( SAFF ) be put it Adelaide headquarters on the market to try to pay off it debt . 
SAFF have be in financial strife for a number of year and fall membership number have make it difficult to stay afloat . 
General manager Carol Vincent say the sale of the building will put SAFF back on track . 
`` The sale of the building will fix the whole thing , it 'll pay off the debt , '' she say . 
`` They 'll have enough money to buy another building and a number of hundred of thousand of dollar leave to invest in whatever way they see fit to give them reserve . 

NT banana grower cash in on price 
Banana grower in the Northern Territory be continue to receive record price follow the destruction of major plantation by cyclone Larry . 
The Territory 's large grower also operate in north Queensland and the Darwin farm have be a lifeline for the business . 
Farm manager Mark Smith say the Territory still have the cheap banana in the nation . 
`` Up until the cyclone we would lose money send fruit down south . The local market have keep u afloat , '' he say . 
`` The cheap banana in Australia be in Darwin at the moment , so it look like the price be up at around $ 15 per kilogram elsewhere in the southern state . 

Olive leave show cancer-killing potential 
Laboratory test of an extract from olive leaf have show it can kill prostate and breast cancer cell . 
Southern Cross University researcher on the north coast of New South Wales complete the work for a manufacturer of the extract . 
The university 's Dr Lesley Stevensen say the result sound remarkable , but need to be consider in context . 
She say clinical trial be need to test the lab theory . 
`` The effect that we find be lethal in that they would actually kill the cell if you like , '' she say . 

Science in the paddock win award for school 
An isolated high school in north-west Tasmania have gain national recognition for take science class to the farm paddock . 
Smithton High beat 22 other entry to win this year 's Australian Rural Education Award . 
Science student test local soil and water quality and then report back to local wool company Woolnorth . 
Assistant principal Susan Wigg say local farmer be now line up for help from the student . 
`` We be most certainly thrill to win the award and I 'm sure that the community will be proud that we have win this award , '' she say . 

Toowoomba ratepayer to vote on drinking recycled water 
As the water crisis in south-east Queensland continue , the ratepayer of Toowoomba will vote on whether they be prepared to drink recycled water . 
Toowoomba Mayor Di Thorley say the referendum be the first of it type and be a condition of Commonwealth funding . 
`` It be not our idea I can assure you , '' she say . 

AWB seek to confidential protect document 
Monopoly wheat exporter AWB be try to stop the oil-for-food inquiry access more than 1,300 confidential document it say be protect by legal privilege . 
Barrister Melissa Perry tell the Federal Court AWB 's privilege claim have rise since May , when it first submit it list of secret document . 
AWB be argue that the new amendment to the Royal Commissions Act allow Commissioner Terence Cole to inspect the confidential document be unconstitutional and will cause the head of the Cole Inquiry to be in contempt if he examine them . 

Rural health profession hail agreement 
Rural health professional say a new agreement between the state and the Federal Government will go a long way towards fix the shortage of doctor in country area . 
An extra 200 medical school place , fund for rural medical school and a new system of training that include stint in regional area be just some of the proposal put forward . 
Rural medicine will be recognise in it own right and there will be a national action plan for mental health . 
Head of Melbourne University 's rural medical school , Dawn deWitt , say while get extra student place be a great achievement the hard work now be get the teacher . 
`` How we be go to work through this issue of ask an already short workforce to teach a huge number of additional new student be go to be the trick , '' she say . 
The Rural Doctors Association say it be not clear how many of the new medical school place will be bond but it hop they will include living allowance and other incentive . 

Russia to open up beef export market 
Russia will open up it beef export market to international bidder due to a shortage of beef from the European Union . 
About 230,000 tonne of beef be need to fill the Russian quota , with Brazil and Australia consider to be the big contender . 
Prices for beef in Russia have jump 40 per cent since the beginning of the year . 
Andrew MacCallum from Meat and Livestock Australia say it be a significant new market and should keep international beef price buoyant . 

7th mad cow disease case detect in Canada 
The seventh case of BSE or mad cow disease have be detect in Canada . 

NZ butter suspend from Europe 
The world dairy market look set to far weaken after the suspension of New Zealand butter from Europe . 
The European Court of Justice make the ruling after a German company challenge New Zealand 's import licence . 
New Zealand 's export to Europe make up about 15 per cent of the total world butter trade . 
Rabobank dairy analyst Tim Hunt say Australian farmer will feel the effect . 
`` Fonterra and the New Zealand Government be work hard to reverse the decision but if the issue be not resolve and trade resume within four to six month we 're go to have a lot of butter look for a new home on the global market , '' he say . 

Name change for sherry , port label 
Australia 's wine industry will no longer use sherry or port on their label to try to gain good access to the European market . 
Under an agreement to phase out the use of traditional European wine term , port will become Australian tawny , while vintage port will be know a Australian vintage . 
Sam Tolley from the Wine and Brandy Corporation say it will mean more freedom . 
`` We 've be able to use this a a bargaining chip to get good access to the marketplace , '' he say . 

Pulp mill integrate impact statement release 
Timber company Gunns have release an integrated impact statement for it propose pulp mill at Bells Bay in northern Tasmania . 
The company say the $ 1.4 billion project will create 4,000 job during construction and add hundred of million of dollar to the value of export woodchips . 
Environmental group be worry the mill could result in more logging in native forest , although that have be reject by project manager Les Baker . 
`` Not one tree will be cut down or one tree plant a a result of this project , '' he say . 
`` It simply transfer 60 per cent of Gunns export chip [ that otherwise go to Asia ] where it value add to a pulp mill in Tasmania . 
`` Woodchips be sell for about $ 90 a tonne where a pulp be sell for approximately $ 800 a tonne so it 's a terrific value add project . '' 

Indigenous community urge to take good care of dog 
With animal number on the rise in remote community , Indigenous community be be urge to take good care of their dog to help improve their own health . 
A national dog conference in Darwin today be try to unite Indigenous family and reduce livestock loss . 
Community leader , vet and health worker have come together to share idea , include the development of share responsibility agreement to attract funding . 
Dr Mark Lawrie from the RSPCA say that might help in a range of way . 
`` I guess there 's another over-arching thing that we 're look at at this conference too and that 's the concept of the linkage between violence to animal and people , '' he say . 

Giant pumpkin attract tourist 
Giant pumpkin be a major attraction at the weekend 's Kununurra Agricultural Show in Western Australia 's far north . 
Just under 5,000 people come to see the Ord Valley 's produce , include tourist travel across Australia 's north . 
Two pumpkin tie for the title a the show 's big , weigh in at 55.9 kilogram . 
The oversized vegetable catch most by surprise , include Gumi from Osaka , Japan . 

Rain band save crop in south-east 
There be plenty of smile over south-eastern Australia today after the first decent rain in month . 
A big band of rain from central Queensland to southern Victoria have save crop and put some water back in tank and dam . 

NSW 
Farmers in the central crop belt of New South Wales have a short-term reprieve , with fall of between 20 and 30 millimetre ensure the survival of winter wheat crop . 
But the best fall be in the northern and far western region , with the top total of 60 millimetre record at Louth , west of Bourke . 
Local grazier Wally Mitchell say it be great . 
`` This have be a magnificent rain change . Many of u have be push scrub , feed cotton seed , keep our breeder alive and some of u have even have a big punt , and join , so the little lamb be just come on the ground here and this will really turn the job around for u , '' he say . 
Parts of Victoria be lucky than others , with talkback caller to the ABC reporting fall of up to 60 millimetre in the state 's north . 

SA 
In South Australia , widespread rain be expect to keep the state 's harvest on track for a bumper season . 
The top reading be at Maralinga in the far west with 65 millimetre , but while most farmer be say it be the most significant rain they 've receive all year , others miss out . 
Rodney Lush from Coombe in the upper south-east be pin his hope on a good rain after suffer a dry June and heavy frost . 
`` It have n't be heavy rain , it 's barely be drizzle a lot of the time , it 's only make thing damp , it certainly have n't wet thing , barely enough to get my pasture growth go again and it 's certainly not enough let u go sow lucerne with any confidence , '' he say . 

Qld 
In Queensland there be some good fall in the parched west and south-west , but little rain fell in the south-east , where dam level be at critical level . 
Quilpie grazier Brian Rutledge say the 60 millimetre in his rain gauge be the best in six year . 
But Mr Rutledge say much more be need if the region be to recover from drought and lose it title of `` heartbreak corner '' . 
`` It have be dub heartbreak corner in the year go by and it be certainly live up to it name , '' he say . 

AWEX in backflip on auction room decision 
Australian Wool Exchange ( AWEX ) have reverse it decision to give up it auction room in Sydney and Melbourne . 
AWEX have want wool broker to take over the Yennora and Brooklyn site by the end of the year . 
The move be not support by exporter or Sydney-based broker , but Melbourne broker Don Fraser say it be vital to keep the auction room open . 
`` Our focus be on ensure that our client have a continuous selling arrangement for their wool , '' he say . 
`` Should AWEX have decide not to go ahead , we would then have take the lease back after all the broker do set up 691 Geelong Road . 
`` The arrangement will be a it have be in the past , which be a one year lease with a one year option . '' 

Copper explorer 's share halve 
Investors strip almost $ 200 million from the value of Queensland copper explorer Cudeco Limited yesterday after it reclassify the size of it Rocklands deposit near Cloncurry . 
The company be hold in a trading halt for 12 day while the Australian Stock Exchange query initial exploration work detail release to the market . 
Yesterday Cudeco be force to halve the size of the deposit because original estimate do not follow market standard . 
Shares in Cudeco , formerly know a Australian Mining Investments , be also slash by half , finish yesterday 's trade at $ 3.56 . 
Hartley 's resource expert Rob Brierley say it be a timely warning for shareholder in speculative exploration stock . 
`` Certainly it 's a touch of reality for Australian Mining Investments , it obviously get a little bit over excited , '' Mr Brierley say . 
`` It 's by no mean the end of the road , but it 's probably a little lesson that sometimes you need to prove these thing up in a little more detail . '' 
A number of investor in Cudeco have contact law firm Slater and Gordon about their loss . 

Farmers set to be compensate for vitamin price fixing 
Eligible farmer , feedlotters and feed supplier be set to be compensate over the vitamin price fix scandal of the 1990s . 
Australia 's first class action against a price fix cartel have be settle with three major pharmaceutical company agree to pay more than $ 30 million in compensation and more than $ 10 million in legal fee . 
The settlement still need to be endorse by the Federal Court . 
Lawyer Kim Parker from Maurice Blackburn Cashman say it be a breakthrough case . 
`` It be issue a a result of a global cartel be expose in relation to vitamin product manufacture by a number of different vitamin , pharmaceutical company include Roche , BASF and Aventis , '' Ms Parker say . 

Banana industry expect to regain full strength by Xmas 
Bananas from tree which escape the full force of cyclone Larry in north Queensland earlier this year will begin arrive on supermarket shelf as early a September . 
The price of the fruit have skyrocket with most of the crop wipe out during the cyclone . 
Craig Allen from the Banana Industry Promotions Company expect the industry to be back to full strength by Christmas . 
`` The response to the news have be great because banana ticket price have be at absolute record level , '' Mr Allen say . 

Looming lettuce shortage prompt grower to buy new farm 
With a looming shortage of lettuce due to water restriction near Melbourne , one of Australia 's large grower have be force to buy land in another part of Victoria . 
Water allocation have be severely slash in the Bacchus Marsh district due to low storage level . 
Frank Ruffo from National Fresh Salads have now buy a farm near Swan Hill , on the Murray River , to obtain more secure water allocation . 
`` This be probably the first time in history that Bacchus Marsh have be so severely hit , prior to that we have n't really have a great problem with water , '' Mr Ruffo say . 

Tuna industry welcome poach report 
A report that Japanese fisherman may have illegally catch more than $ 5 billion in tuna over the past 20 year have be welcome by the Australian industry . 
The report by the International Commission for the Conservation of Bluefin Tuna find that about 8,500 tonne of tuna be be poach each year . 
Brian Jeffriess from the Tuna Boat Owners Association say while illegal fishing have cost them income , the figure show there be more tuna in the wild than previously think . 
`` That 's a large loss of income over the last 20 year , if the report be correct , '' Mr Jeffriess say . 
`` That 's a worrying situation . 
`` Strangely enough , if indeed it 's true , then it show the stock in a much strong condition . 
`` The way the science work be in fact that the more that have be catch , the more productive the stock be . 

WTO make last effort to save trade talk 
A last ditch effort have begin at the G8 summit in St Petersburg to save the Doha round of world trade talk . 
World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) director-general Pascal Lamy have be in confidential talk with key country include Australia , the United States and the European Union to discover their final position on farm trade reform . 

Sleeping disorder among mine worker on the rise 
With the Western Australian mining industry continue to boom , the number of shift worker suffer sleep disorder be grow . 
Mining company be operate 24 hour a day and the expert say many worker do not get enough sleep between shift . 
Dr David Hillman , from the Sir Charles Gardiner Hospital in Perth , say he be treat a large number of shift worker and there be safety concern which must be address by mine company . 
`` First of all there 's a decrease in alertness level , secondly our reaction time get slow , '' Dr Hillman say . 
`` Mood and memory be adversely affect , it just make u under perform so we become safety risk amongst other thing . 
`` It really be a massive issue for the Pilbara . 

Hay balers fail to meet safety standard : survey 
It be farm safety week and hay balers be the late equipment to come in for some attention . 
A recent survey by the Kondinin Group find two commonly-used hay balers fail to meet industry safety requirement . 
Engineer Josh Guimelli say farmer should be wary when purchase new equipment . 
`` A couple of the machine actually do n't have an upper walkway rail which , on a baler - large square baler - be quite a mission because they 're rather high off the ground , '' Mr Guimelli say . 

Researchers develop vaccine for de-sexing dog 
De-sexing dog in the future may just involve a quick vaccination . 
Researchers be develop non-surgical way to control breed without surgery . 
Professor Henry Baker from Auburn University , in the United States , be visit Australia and believe the emerge technology could help solve animal problem in remote Indigenous community . 
`` [ It involve ] chemical sterilisation , injection into the reproductive organ to cause their destruction and vaccine , '' Professor Baker say . 
`` Most people think of vaccine with respect to control infectious disease , but now vaccine have a new role to treat non-infectious disease . 
`` In my country direct injection into the testis of dog [ be show the most promise ] . 
`` That 's a registered product . 

Court decision loom over AWB document case 
Wheat exporter AWB will know this afternoon if the Federal Court will hear it case to keep 1,300 secret document from the oil-for-food inquiry . 
The company have claim legal privilege over the material , say it represent confidential advice and should not be see by Commissioner Terence Cole . 
AWB claim disclosure of over 1,300 document will expose the company to irreparable harm , even though the Federal Government amend legislation last month give Commissioner Cole the power to see the secret material . 
AWB say the new law be unconstitutional and Commissioner Cole will be in contempt if he use it . 
The wheat exporter want the Federal Court to impose a permanent injunction restrain the Commissioner from inspect the document . 
Justice Neil Young will decide this afternoon if the court will intervene to hear the matter . 
Meanwhile farmer in New South Wales have vote to continue their support for the single desk for wheat export after a vigorous debate . 
With the finding of the Cole inquiry into AWB still pending , farmer state their support for the single desk while call for good control . 
A motion be carry call for improved corporate governance within AWB and good transparency between AWB and it export arm AWB International . 

Nut grower look to overseas market 
Macadamia nut grower be look offshore for market for their near record production level . 
With fall consumer demand here in Australia , grower be take advantage of reduced tariff for value-added product which be introduce a part of the United States Free Trade Agreement . 
Jim Twentyman from Suncoast Gold Macadamias in south-east Queensland say tariff will be reduce to zero by 2008 . 
`` At the moment , because of the duty reason , we 're have to have that pack and process in the USA so we believe from next year we 'll be able to do the packaging and processing in Australia , '' he say . 

Dried fruit industry to take on snack food sector 
The dried fruit industry say it will tackle the snack food market in an effort to counter the grow competition from cheap import . 
Growers and processor say they can not compete with the cost of production in Turkey and Iran to supply the low end of the market . 
Peter Jones from the Australian Dried Fruits Association say it be tough to get space on the supermarket shelf , but there be consumer demand for healthy alternative to chocolate bar and chip . 
`` Traditionally we 've always be look at a be an ingredient in fruit cake and breakfast cereal , so really we 've get to go to the snack market , '' he say . 

Australia bag rice deal to supply South Korea 
Australia have negotiate a deal to supply rice to South Korea . 
The quota be for more than 9,000 tonne of white rice each year for the next decade . 

Sheep producer urge to make 'bare bum ' check 
Sheep producer be be urge to check for sign of 'bare bum ' sheep in their flock , because new research show the trait be more widespread than first thought . 
The condition , where the breech of the animal be bare of wool and have less wrinkle than other merino , be find on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula last year . 
Australian Wool Innovation have be research the trait to find out if it can be pass on , and whether it could be an alternative to mulesing . 
Head of sheep productivity , Dr Troy Fischer , say the sheep may also produce good wool . 
`` Like with any trait there 's variation involve , but [ it ] essentially demonstrate there be potential to select for improved wool quality plus the bare breech trait , '' he say . 

Court to hear AWB push to keep document secret 
The Federal Court have agree to hear AWB 's bid to keep 1,300 document secret from the oil for food inquiry . 

'Shear ' hard work pay off for Aussies in Canada 
Australia have beat the world at an international sheep shear competition at the Calgary Stampede in Alberta , Canada . 
The Australian team of Rob Glover , from Bothwell in Tasmania and Jason Wingfield , from Victoria , beat New Zealand , the United States and Canada in a test match series over two day at Canada 's big agricultural show , which attract more than 1.3 million people . 
Mr Glover say it be great to get a win over the highly favoured Kiwis . 

Farm group rethink GM crop ban support 
The New South Wales Farmers Association have withdraw it support for a ban on genetically modify ( GM ) crop . 
The association have pass a motion ask for the immediate lifting of the state 's moratorium on GM crop . 
Grain producer Michael Matthews say it be a victory for progressive farmer . 
`` This be a technology that we have to have to be able to compete on the world stage . Without this technology we 're go to be sink further and far behind , '' he say . 
`` This technology be all about produce greener crop , clean crop , healthy crop , crop grow with 70 per cent le herbicide and be more friendly to our environment . 

Councils say water initiative hurting rate revenue 
New South Wales local council say they be face a dramatic drop in rate revenue a a result of the National Water Initiative . 
Under the water reform process , land and water title be be separate which be expect to cause a drop in rate for irrigated land . 
Councils now have to come up with a new rating formula to make up the difference . 
The Nationals ' Member for Murrumbidgee , Adrian Piccoli , be call on the State Government to give council more time and more help to make the change . 
`` The Victorian Government have postpone the implementation of these new council rating structure by two year , '' he say . 

Tradefresh launch takeover bid for Chiquita 
A takeover bid have be launch for fresh fruit and vegetable company Chiquita Brands South Pacific . 
The bid have be launch by Tradefresh , a company own by agribusiness giant Timbercorp and the Costa Group , with an offer of 73 cent a share . 
Market analyst Toby Grimm say the company 's share have trade much high , but have experience a slump over recent week . 

Foreign buyer warn Australian sheep too expensive 
Overseas buyer of live sheep be complain that Australian livestock price be too high . 
In the Middle East , importer be warn that live sheep from country like Somalia and India be constantly undercut Australian mutton in the marketplace . 
Jasem Al Dhahi from the Emirates Livestock and Meat Trading Company in Dubai say the price of Australian sheep have jump four time in the past month , and his customer be look elsewhere . 
`` In the last four ship now , the price get high , high , high , '' he say . 
`` I can not in the future buy more sheep from Australia . In the past maybe I buy 15,000 , the next ship I will say send me 7,000 . '' 
Meanwhile , another shipload of Australian live sheep have just be unload at the port of Jebel Ali , near Dubai . 
About 12,000 be now be hold at one of the Middle East 's most modern feedlot . 
The feedlot be one of the most advanced facility of it type in the Middle East . 
The condition be extremely hot at 50 degree in the sun , but under the 34 hectare of shadecloth it be a more respectable 45 degree Celcius . 
When full , the housing facility can accommodate about 90,000 Australian sheep . 
The most recent shipment arrive after a 16-day journey from Fremantle , with no evidence of foot soreness or too much heat stress , and be feed water that be specially cool by big refrigeration unit . 

Transport industry fear high fuel cost amid Mid East crisis 
The transport sector be brace for even high fuel price , a a result of the escalate crisis in the Middle East . 
Analysts say it be only a matter of time before crude oil hit $ US100 a barrel , lead to bowser price of about $ 2 a litre . 
Luke Fraser from the Livestock Transporters Association say trucking operator be already find it hard to break even , and they will have to pass on the increase cost , with flow-on affect for the farming and export sector . 
`` It be go to be difficult , but I think that more than that it be probably go to affect the whole meat and livestock chain and indeed grain and anything else that be be carry in the bush , '' he say . 

Pork supplier play down hepatitis A concern 
One of the country 's large pork supplier say there be little risk of it customer contract hepatitis A , despite one of it staff fall ill from the virus earlier this month . 
Toowoomba-based company KR Castlemaine Foods , in southern Queensland , be today advertise product recall notice in all national newspaper . 
Over the next two day KR Castlemaine be recall 6,000 carton of product from across Australia . 
The president of parent company Darling Downs Foods , Mike Adams , say the staff member have recover from the potentially fatal virus , which she contract from a friend visit from overseas . 
`` Queensland Health have say that there be nothing wrong with any of the system or any of the way we manufacture or produce the product , '' he say . 
The recall will see 17 line of ready-to-eat product include shave and slice ham turkey and chicken replace , and be expect to cost the company $ 500,000 . 

Bagasse project 's potential excites mill manager 
Yesterday morning you might have hear Gordon Edwards talk about his plan to process and then sell Bagasse from the Mossman Mill to buyer in Japan . 
Mr Edward 's company Kristevefourspace have form a joint venture with the mill and the plan be to sell bagasse fibre a a healthy food additive . 
He say there be a strong demand for bagasse because the Japanese Government be push for an increase fibre content in school child 's lunch . 
Mr Edwards say if everything go accord to plan they should produce about $ 17.5 million worth of bagasse fibre . 
`` We currently have a joint venture agreement with the mill where we pay for all consumables with a percentage of gross on top so the mill ca n't lose out , '' he say . 
`` The value of bagasse powder compare to raw sugar be ten to one . 
`` Basically 40-50 cent for raw sugar , $ 5 a kilo for bagasse powder . '' 
He say one processing machine have already be instal at the mill and soon three more will be in place . 
Mossman Mill manager Alan Johnstone say he be excite about the bagasse project 's potential because the technology have already be trialed in Okinawa and he hop the Mossman trial prove equally successful . 
Mr Johnstone say so far only a memorandum of understanding have be sign between the mill and Kristevefourspace and nothing be in write regard the breakdown of future profit . 

Timbercorp , Costas launch Chiquita takeover bid 
Agri-investment company Timbercorp have announce it be involve in a take-over bid for mushroom and fruit marketing company Chiquita Brands South Pacific . 
For the bid , Timbercorp have join force with the Costa family to form a company call Tradefresh , which have offer 73 cent per share to buy out Chiquita . 
The Costa group already own 26 per cent of Chiquita share . 
If the bid be successful Timbercorp would end up with a 35 per cent share in Chiquita and the Costa family the remain 65 per cent . 
Bananas only represent about 15 per cent of Chiquita 's normal annual turnover and before cyclone Larry the company market about 12 per cent of all banana sell in Australia . 
Mushrooms be Chiquita 's big commodity make up about 35 to 40 per cent of it annual turnover , some from the Stanthorpe area in south-east Queensland . 
Chiquita manage director Mano Babiolakis say he have only just hear about this takeover bid so he have advise shareholder not to take any action until it have be carefully assess . 
Timbercorp be a specialist investment management company involve in the Australian horticulture and forestry industry . 
Timbercorp 's deputy CEO Sol Rabinowicz believe Chiquita would be a sensible addition to their portfolio . 
`` Both we and Costas believe that there 's an opportunity to join together the strength of the Costa group a one of Australia 's leader in fresh produce , farm management , pack , processing and marketing together with Chiquita 's strength a a category manager particularly in the area like berry , mushroom and citrus , '' he say . 
`` We think that it can sit together , they can become a more efficient operator . '' 

Cape York Peninsula : the ideal training ground ? 
Some Cape York Peninsula cattle producer believe far north Queensland property offer the ideal training ground for young trainee into the industry and they be appeal to the Government to support some sort of subsidised training scheme . 
The big side benefit would be property could access much need worker for dry season mustering . 
Yesterday Greg Jenkins , from Strathburn Station , bring up the problem of worker and how hard it be to recruit young people to cattle property in far north Queensland . 
The problem be young people can earn more money elsewhere and compare to previous generation , Mr Jenkins believe the youth of today be less inclined to work in remote area . 
Jay Willmann 's family run Yarraden station near Coen but they have only be there three year after come up from central Queensland . 
Mr Willmann say on Cape York Peninsula property the work be intense , varied and excite so young people learn the rope a lot quick than down south . 
`` I work in central Queensland a lot , all over station , '' he say . 
`` The big thing be they do n't have the variety of work that we have up here . 

Farmers welcome EC assistance extension 
Farmers across four state have welcome the Federal Government 's decision to extend drought relief until next year . 
Exceptional circumstance ( EC ) have be extend in 23 drought-declared area in Queensland , New South Wales , Victoria and South Australia . 
Under the scheme , farmer and pastoralists who be be battle drought receive income and business support . 
Tiffany Lord , from Yudnapinna Station west of Port Augusta in South Australia , say it be impossible to underestimate the importance of the assistance . 
`` It 's help out keep u afloat , I 'm sure that it 's help a lot of other people who be in the same predicament out this way , '' he say . 

Canola crop estimate cut 
The 2006 canola crop estimate have be reduce to 1.4 million tonne - 50,000 tonne down on last year . 
The Australian Oilseeds Federation say late sowing in many area , and cold , dry weather during June have lead to the low forecast . 

Businessman fin $ 1.2m over abalone trade 
A Queensland businessman have be fin a record $ 1.2 million for his role in an elaborate abalone trading ring . 
David Wei Meng Lee be be find guilty in Hobart 's Criminal Court of five count of illegally possess abalone . 
Between August 2001 and March 2002 the 49-year-old received consignment of dried abalone from Tasmania at his Gold Coast seafood retail outlet . 
Lee be one of 17 people who be charge a a result of a police surveillance program know a Operation Oakum . 
The $ 1.2 million fine be the large penalty impose on any of them . 
In hand down the fine , Justice Shan Tennant say she think it unlikely Lee would be able to pay it all . 

'Contractual requirement ' delay wheat shipment 
There have be more delay in ship wheat to India , with grain from Western Australia under intense scrutiny to ensure it meet tough contractual requirement . 
Quarantine concern have hold up two previous shipment to India this year . 
The late consignment be be load onto a ship at Esperance today , which have be wait in the bay for more than two week . 
AWB 'S Western Australian manager , Paul Ryan , say a combination of factor cause the delay . 
`` There 's a very strict and extensive pre-testing and test program before the vessel be load that have to be adhere to under this Indian contract , '' he say . 

Shipping delay to leave US retailer short of fruit 
There be a looming shortage of Australian citrus in US supermarket , after engine problem delay the third shipment of this year 's export . 
The ship be delay in Port Adelaide by 12 day . 
Steve Allen , from exporter Riversun , say it will be the first time market demand can not be meet . 
`` Unfortunately we will run out of fruit for probably a week or less , which mean that some supermarket may go to South Africa but look there be a shortage of fruit in the United States , '' he say . 

Productivity review result disappointing : Truss 
State and federal-owned corporation deal with road , rail , port and other export infrastructure be under-performing , accord to a new analysis by the Productivity Commission . 
Treasurer Peter Costello have seize on the report a another example of the need for the Federal Government to take control of important national asset , although the Opposition say the Government 's track record be woeful . 
Federal Transport Minister Warren Truss say the review result be disappointing . 
He say the mindset within government-owned company have to change . 
`` Obviously we expect maximum performance from our service and our utility - that 's essential to build a productive trading arrangement and to ensure that our country be able to pay it way , '' he say . 
`` It be disappoint that some company do not perform well , . 
`` Of course the very act of corporatising a utility do n't make it profitable . 

Audit report urge illegal land clear test case 
A new report by the New South Wales auditor-general show 40 per cent of the 74,000 hectare clear of vegetation last year be do illegally . 
While satellite image be be use to provide accurate information for the first time , the report show illegal clearing be not as widespread a conservationist have claim . 
Auditor-General Bob Sendt be warn farmer , particularly in western New South Wales , that with new law , the State Government be in a position to clamp down on illegal clearing . 
`` The Government and the Department of Natural Resources need to make it clear to those element of the rural community that want to continue to clear land illegally that the new legislation do have bite , '' he say . 

Victorian water trader set new record 
There be more evidence of grow agricultural water sale in Victoria , with a record amount of permanent water trade in the state 's north-west last financial year . 
Almost 26,000 megalitres of additional water move into the region , mainly from upstream along the Murray River . 
Owen Russell from Lower Murray Water say most of the new water be be use by almond grower between Robinvale and Nyah . 
`` We 've see water come in effectively from out of the Goulburn Murray irrigation district region , '' he say . 

Rain boost young cattle price 
Recent rain across part of the eastern seaboard have help to drive up cattle price . 
The Eastern Young Cattle Indicator , a benchmark of young cattle price across saleyards in eastern Australia , jump eight cent to 371 cent dressweight last night . 
AgConcepts Analyst Angus Brown say a tight supply of cattle and increased demand from producer have prompt the increase , which be likely to continue . 
`` Low supply always force price up a lot feeder look for cattle and processor look for cattle and restockers be look for something to put on the grass they be go to have in about a month , '' he say . 

Australian , NZ dairy farmer share research cost 
They might be rival in international trade but Australian and New Zealand dairy farmer be about to get a whole lot closer , with a new partnership to share research cost . 
Following support from farmer organisation in both country , Dairy Australia and New Zealand company Dairy Insight will focus on improve pre-farmgate research , include industry development , education and training . 
The head of the Australian Dairy Industry Council , Allan Burgess , say it make sense to reduce cost . 
`` We think there 's very limited resource available for farmer and thing we can do together be go to be more efficient , '' he say . 

New Middle East lamb export record set 
Australia have record it high ever monthly sale figure for lamb to the Middle East . 
In June , sale hit 824 tonne - 100 tonne higher than the previous record . 
Ian Ross , the Middle Eastern manager for Meat and Livestock Australia , say the quality of Australian lamb be recognise by supermarket and restaurant buyer . 
`` There 's a great response now to the flavour of Australian lamb , and also there 's a strong awareness of [ it ] , '' he say . 
`` We 've be do all we can now for some time to encourage the awareness of the safety system and the traceability , the integrity of the Australian halal system because we be talk about a Muslim community . 

Algae project win renewable energy grant 
A Queensland company try to produce biodiesel from algae be among the recipient of $ 10.5 million in federal grant for renewable energy project . 
Energy Minister Ian Macfarlane say Brisbane company SQC be get $ 220,000 for it work with algae . 
`` The algae produce an oil extract which can then be use for biodiesel , '' he say . 
The company want to commercialise a process which could be suitable for farm dam and irrigation lagoon . 
The big grant recipient be CSR Sugar 's centre at the University of Queensland , which have receive $ 5 million for work to produce a new sugarcane with more fermentable sugar suitable to ethanol and biofuels . 

Internet help farmer recruit backpacker 
Video conference technology be help job agency tap into the backpacker market in Australia 's far north-west . 
One company have set up remote facility in Broome , Western Australia , interview travel worker over the Internet and then employ them to work in the farm sector . 
One of the region look for worker be the east Kimberley , which look set to have a bumper mango harvest . 
Grower Lachlan Dobson doubt local labour will meet demand . 
`` There 's guesstimate go around at the moment that Kununurra mango production might be up around 400,000 tray , '' he say . 

Project Gold to tell farm family ' story 
A youth art project have be launch in southern New South Wales to stimulate debate about water use and drought . 
Under Project Gold more than 30 student will develop digital and medium skill by work with the not-for-profit organisation BIG hART . 
Spokesman Casey Ankers say their new skill will be use to tell the story of farm family from southern Queensland to northern Victoria . 
`` What we 're look at do be skilling up the young people to work with u , work with the BIG hART artist and go out to rural community and gather narrative from rural family that have be affect by the drought , '' he say . 

Countries aim to salvage trade deal 
The world 's most influential trade minister be meet in Geneva this weekend to try to resurrect global free trade talk . 
Six nation , include Australia , will be attempt to salvage a deal . 
Australia 's push to reduce trade barrier be receive support from local meat importer in Europe . 
The Australian sheepmeat sector be push for an increase to the 19,000 tonne sheepmeat quota in the European Union . 
One of the big importer of lamb and beef into France , Claude Thieblemont , say if import quota be lift , local consumption could double . 
`` France be very short of production , we supply 40 per cent of all need and we import 60 per cent of our lamb from abroad , '' he say . 
`` We would expect to import more from Australia because we like the Australian product . French supplier [ be ] buying five kilo per caput per year which be very low and we could multiply this by two or three , easily . '' 
Professor Andrew Stoler from the Institute for International Trade say world leader appear keen to agree to reform after this week 's G8 summit in St Petersburg . 
He say that should help to break the deadlock . 
`` What be go to move the process forward be not the sort of political direction that come out of the recent G8 meeting , '' he say . 
`` You ca n't really get any high level than that unless God come down and tell them you have to get a deal . 

Authority approve canola export licence 
The Grains Licensing Authority ( GLA ) in Western Australia have approve three small export licence for 75,000 tonne of canola aim at high price market in Europe and the Middle East . 
GLA chairman Wayne Obst say high tonnage be not approve because crop prediction be forecast to be dismal this year . 
Two application to send malt barley to China be knock back because of the dry condition in the west . 
Mr Obst say the authority can easily prove the restriction on export licence will benefit grower . 
`` These canola licence have go to a high price market , that 's be cause by the request for canola into the biodiesel market , '' he say . 

Much need rain fall on very dry region 
There be some hope for Western Australia 's grain grower today after rain fell overnight in some very dry region . 
While it be too late for farmer in the large grain grow district in the northern-mid-west , moderate to good fall far south will boost thirsty crop . 
Weather bureau forecaster Noel Puzey say the really good news be that a more wintry weather pattern be set in . 
`` There have be some reasonable fall to help people along at the moment , fall range from about six millimetre at Dalwallinu in the Central Wheatbelt to 20 millimetre through some part of the Great Southern and it be still move through to the east so mainly southern district can pick up a few shower around the place , '' he say . 
A group of Victorian farmer be develop a national grading system for biodiesel to assure it quality . 
With more and more farmer blend their own fuel , the Central Wimmera Community Enterprise group say the system will quash concern that biodiesel could damage engine . 
Chairman Peter Neiwand say once an Australian biodiesel standard be in place , the Federal Government will be lobby to reinstate tax break . 

US to scale back mad cow disease test 
United States Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns say his department will scale back it expanded testing for mad cow disease due to it extremely low rate . 
Mr Johanns say year of expanded and normal testing show the US be likely to have four to seven infected animal and reduce current test almost ten-fold to 40,000 a year be still well above international guideline . 
Mr Johanns dismiss concern the move will cause a new rift with Japan , whose food safety body want continued high US testing . 
`` We have bend over backwards with the Japanese , we 've even agree with them to ship only beef from animal under 20-months and that 's a very unique , very , very unusual agreement , '' he say . 

Qld mining sector continue to boom 
Queensland 's mining boom continue to power ahead with the Queensland Government nominate a large parcel of land for future mineral exploration . 
Labor Member for Mount Isa Tony McGrady say nearly 3,500 square kilometre will be offer under a tender system for prospective mining company . 
He say they will also get data show deposit of copper , lead , zinc and silver . 
`` As a result of the work they now have information on mineral prospectivitiy in an area of land big than the ACT , '' he say . 

SAFF seek help to boost membership 
South Australia 's peak farming body want farmer to help boost membership level . 
Only 65 farmer make the trip to a public workshop in Adelaide today to help redirect the South Australian Farmers Federation ( SAFF ) into the future . 
SAFF be ask farmer across the state to come up with idea to make the organisation more relevant particularly to young farmer . 
The organisation 's membership be fall there be currently 4,000 member while there be 11,000 back in the 1980 's . 

Grower challenge importer to buy Aust coffee bean 
An organic coffee producer from New South Wales be challenge Australia 's three main coffee importer to buy locally grown bean . 
Australians drink nearly 50,000 tonne of coffee a year and almost all of it be import . 
Organic grower Cath Ford say the industry have to demonstrate the quality of local coffee to consumer and coffee supplier . 
`` Quite frankly people will buy commodity fair trade coffee over Australian coffee if we can not get across that the quality and flavour be different , '' she say . 
`` We need to get on our bandwagon and show that what we have be a supreme product over other people 's . '' 

Scientists discover bug behind sheep mastitis 
Scientists have discover sheep mastitis be be cause by a different bug than first thought . 
The inflammation of milk gland kill 5 per cent of ewe in Poll Dorset , Suffolk and Texel flock each year . 
Dr Stuart Barber from the University of Melbourne have find mannheimia be the most common bacteria cause the problem . 
It be previously think staphylococcus bring on the disease , a it do in cow . 
Dr Barber say this new information be crucial . 

Sprouts can curb cancer : DPI 
New research have show eat the sprout that be often find in mixed salad can help curb cancer . 
The Queensland Department of Primary Industries ( DPI ) have investigate 22 different brassica , include broccoli and cauliflower . 
It have find sprout can contain up to 200 time more of a chemical which help dissolve carcinogen , than mature vegetable do . 
DPI physiologist Tim O'Hare say radish and broccoli sprout rat the high . 

Program aim to get country kid talk about depression 
A new program tackle depression in country school be try to encourage student and teacher to be more open about mental illness . 
The beyondblue program come a new research show depression and suicide be the two big concern for country kid . 
And while student be most likely to turn to their family and friend for support , it be hop they will also open up to their teacher . 
Queensland school counsellor Gary Quinn say student at his school be become more willing to talk about depression . 
`` Most student , once they start do something to say 'hey help me ' , they really do want some help , '' he say . 

Fergies flock to flood festival 
The heroic feat of the famous grey Ferguson tractor be be celebrate in the New South Wales town of Wentworth this weekend . 
The Festival of the Flood will see 300 fergies of all shape be sizes attend to commemorate massive flood in 1956 . 
The fergies will be the star of the show because they be use to build levee bank to stop the rise floodwater and protect the town . 
Fergie enthusiast John Reeves from Geelong will be there and can not wait to catch up with others who share his passion . 

Website to track drought impact 
The Federal Government have unveil it plan to make it easy for farmer to apply for drought relief . 
The national agricultural monitoring system be a website which will track how major agricultural region be perform . 
While state government could take week or month to collate drought information under the old application process , John Sims from the Bureau of Rural Sciences say the new system will take minute . 
`` There 's information on rainfall , there 's information on how that rainfall affect pasture and crop growth , and how that translate into impact on say farm financial performance over the last couple of year , '' he say . 

Councils come to farmer ' aid 
With Western Australia in the grip of a dry year , local council be look for different way to help farmer who be struggle to grow a crop this season . 
The Shire of Mullewa and the Shire of Chapman Valley will offer road work and community project work to farmer , so they can generate an income . 
Mullewa president Nino Messina say the council have receive extra funding for road work and employ farmer make sense . 
`` The harvesting will come and farmer wo n't be able to do anything because they 'll have no crop to harvest , '' he say . 
The Queensland Nationals be call on the Federal Government for good measure to protect regional medium diversity under it propose change to medium ownership law . 
The Nationals want the Government to set a mandate for local radio content and legislation to prevent a single company from own more than two out of three news service in regional centre , include television , radio and newspaper . 
But lecturer in medium policy and research at the University of Western Sydney Dr Tim Dwyer say the provision in the Nationals ' resolution fall well short of any sort of guarantee to provide a diverse range of local news . 

PigPass to identify food safety risk 
Pork producer have welcome a new identification system to trace animal from pig pen to plate . 
PigPass be a national vendor declaration form which must accompany pig be process for domestic and export market . 
It be be roll out now and should be fully in place by January 2007 . 
David Miles from the Victorian Farmers Federation 's pig group say any disease or food safety risk will be identify with the new pas . 
`` There 's get to be traceback . If we have n't get traceability well we 're not go to be able to export or do anything professionally and it will control the industry , a I understand , and the VFF pig group we 're quite happy with this , '' he say . 

Labor back call for quarantine system inquiry 
The Federal Opposition have join call for an independent inquiry into Australia 's quarantine system . 
The call follow move from the New South Wales Government and the New South Wales Farmers Association for a Senate inquiry . 

Top End water region to be map 
The last major unstudied water region of the Northern Territory 's Top End be about to be map and model . 
The Gulf region extend from Mataranka to the Gulf of Carpentaria and have a number of large , permanently run river . 
Over the next three year the Territory Government will uncover not only how the aquifer and river interact , but also measure how much water the environment use . 
Project officer Ursula Zarr say they need to know how much water there be so they can protect everyone 's interest . 

Committee chairman rule out renew push for Hydro privatisation 
The chairman of an New South Wales Upper House Committee look at the future of the Snowy Hydro scheme have reject report that it will renew a push for privatisation . 
The State Government rule out try to sell off it share of the scheme earlier this year , when the Federal and Victorian Governments pull out of the plan . 

Banana industry look at cyclone-proofing 
The banana industry be look at way to become cyclone-proof to avoid a repeat of this year 's shortage . 
The Australian Banana Growers Council want to strengthen small grow area , such a Western Australia 's Gascoyne to ensure customer demand can be meet . 
Cyclone Larry wipe out most of north Queensland 's crop in March , drive up the price of available fruit . 
Spokesman Tony Heidrich say market and retailer need to allow small grow area to keep a foothold in the market once Queensland fruit return . 
`` You 'll never completely cyclone proof the industry , '' he say . 
`` But what we 're say be we 've obviously get a real problem this time around in have such a big cyclone knock out so much of our production . 

No breakthrough in world farm trade talk 
There be no sign yet of a breakthrough in last ditch world farm trade talk in Geneva . 
The G6 , include Australia , Japan , the US and the European Union be meet in what be consider a final attempt to resolve five year of discussion about trade reform . 

Dairy co-ops increase return to farmer 
New South Wales regional dairy cooperative have buck the trend of the major milk processor by increase return to farmer this season . 
Norco and the Bega Cooperative on the north and south coast have announce step-up in their milk price . 
Janet Moxey from the New South Wales Farmers Association have welcome the move and believe it could be due to a delay in pass on last year 's high return . 
`` I do n't think New South Wales farmer have actually see the flow-on of the good time in Victoria last year , '' Ms Moxey say . 
`` Farmers in New South Wales lock into contract for a 12-month period and do n't see the step-up payment that be pay out in Victoria . 

Egg farmer seek tightening of free-range legislation 
Consumers be be warn that egg mark 'free-range ' could actually come from cage bird . 
Some producer claim that some farmer be falsely label their egg and be urge consumer to look out for accreditation from an independent authority like the RSPCA . 
Free range farmer Tom Fryar have tell ABC TV 's Landline program that there be no legal definition of the term free-range and legislation should be tighten . 

Book to focus on mother and daughter-in-law ' relationship 
The relationship between mother and their daughter-in-law on family farm be set to go under the microscope in a new book by a South Australian author . 
Abi Spehr , from Beachport in South Australia , say introduce a new person into an establish family business can be traumatic regardless of whether the two woman get along . 
She say there have be little research do on what can be a difficult relationship and it be time there be . 

Tas vodka win international award 
A Tasmanian distillery which export vodka to Russia have win two international award at the Wine and Spirits Fair in London . 
The Tamar Distillery , at Beauty Point in northern Tasmania , receive bronze medal for it citrus-infused dry gin and Tasmanian pepperberry vodka . 
Manager Phillip Ridyard say Tasmania 's pristine water help the company to crack into the tough Russian market . 
`` The primary reason be the water and the selection of the water because the crucial part of vodka be low calcium , '' Mr Ridyard say . 
`` And we produce three blend use three water , one from the west coast , one from near Scottsdale and a sample from York Town . 
`` We then hold a blind tasting with a group of expatriate Russians . 

Wine glut blame for price drop 
Wine price have hit an all-time low , with a major supermarket chain sell bottle of clean skin chardonnay and merlot for $ 2.00 a bottle . 
The move have send shockwaves through the battling industry , with the wine normally sell for $ 6.00 . 
The massive discounting be be blame on the wine glut and follow a trend set in the US in 2003 . 
Chief executive of the Wine Makers Federation of Australia Stephen Strachan say it be a very worrying development . 
`` I do n't think anyone in the industry would 've expect that we get to that point , '' he say . 
`` What it do be it undermine the strength of exist brand and it mean that the temptation for those brand to try and meet similar price point be there because they obviously want to be able to sell their wine . 

Farmers warn to watch out for food mile phenomenon 
Australian farmer have be warn to take note of a new consumer trend in the United Kingdom . 
Companies who import Australian beef into Britain and the European Union be wary of the new phrase 'food mile ' which could be use to limit import into that country . 
Food mile refers to the grow practice of importer and supermarket chain stack their shelf with exotic item from around the world . 
The criticism be they be chew through too much aircraft and truck fuel in get them there , thereby increase carbon emission . 
Retail manager from Global , UK 's big meat importer and also an importer of Australian beef , Bob Rose , say we need to keep an eye on the food mile phenomenon . 
`` In the UK at the moment , global warming be a very big issue , '' Mr Rose say . 
`` And one of the issue that have raise it head be bring product from around the world , and the cost of the carbon emission to the environment of bring that product from around the world ; would it not bet good source locally-produced product ? 

Uranium conference to discuss Labor backflip 
A bid by Labor leader Kim Beazley to dump his party 's opposition to new uranium mine be expect to be a major talk point at the annual Australian Uranium Conference in Perth this week . 
Three hundred uranium expert , include 30 delegate from China , be at the conference . 
Uranium Information Centre chief executive and conference delegate Ian Hore-Lacey say a major change in political opinion could lead to Australia export more uranium . 
With current export go to Korea , Europe and Japan he say the next two big customer will be China and India . 
`` China be quadruple it nuclear capacity by 2020 and it 's go to need to import most of the uranium to fuel that , '' he say . 
`` India be another possible country but that 's much far out . 

Draft timber harvest regulation anger landowner 
Landowners in New South Wales be angry at the State Government 's draft regulation for timber harvesting in privately-owned forest . 
The result of year of debate , the code of practice aim to protect rare timber specie , and wildlife and biodiversity , on farm . 
But it do not include compensation for landowner . 
Robert Dyason , a tree grower in the state 's north , believe the draft code be a missed opportunity . 
`` We could have be present with a complete package of code , education and compensation for reserved area , it would have promote adaptive management with provision for improvement in management a knowledge improve , '' Mr Dyason say . 

Fire and factory closure leave 100 jobless 
Almost 100 job will be lose with the closure of a fibre board factory in Tasmania 's north . 
Carter Holt Harvey have announce it will shut down it Bell Bay plant , which produce the building product MDF . 
Operations there be suspend a month ago after a multi-million dollar fire . 
Andrew Eastick from Northern Tasmanian Development say it be a difficult decision . 
`` The plant have always be marginal and one of the difficulty for the plant be the market for MDF have move on , it produce a material which be only able to be manufacture down to a certain thickness , '' Mr Eastick say . 
`` Is the plant able to be re-engineered so that it can produce an MDF material that can attract a premium ? 

Fungal disease could wipe out WA wheat crop 
A disease that can completely wipe out wheat crop appear for the first time this season in Western Australia . 
The fungal disease stripe rust , which can reduce crop yield by up to 90 per cent , have be spot in the state 's south , near Esperance . 
Agronomist Phil Smyth say farmer be grow wheat variety with good resistance to the disease but this outbreak could be similar to the epidemic of two year ago . 

Two confirmed case of Q fever in NSW border city 
Victoria 's Department of Human Services have confirm two case of Q fever in the border city of Wodonga . 
A third person be suspect of contract the disease , which cause heavy flu-like symptom . 
People work with livestock be usually most at risk of the disease , although the two confirm patient do not work with livestock . 
Director of population health in Albury , Tony Kolbe , say it be unusual , but not impossible , for people who do not work with animal to become ill . 

Average rainfall expect right across Australia 
The Bureau of Meteorology say most of Australia look set for average rainfall over the next three month , although the north-east could be dry . 
The bureau say there be a 60 to 80 per cent chance of below average rain in the region from Daly Waters in the Northern Territory , south to the corner country and across to Rockhampton in Queensland . 
Elsewhere there be a 50 per cent chance of at least average rainfall between August and October . 

Producing , manufacturing cost high than expect 
The cost of manufacture good and grow produce have rise high than expect , add more weight to a forecast interest rate rise next week . 
Theoretically the big price increase for produce banana , grain , beef , sheep and dairy product should mean a pay rise for farmer . 
But the ANZ bank 's chief economist Saul Eslake say the jump in producer price reflect a lack of supply due to weather condition , high fuel price , and interest rate . 
`` Drought have constrain grain supply , the long-term reduction in sheep number across Australia have be a factor in rise meat price , rise beef price be partly due to the very good price that Australian producer have be get overseas and sugar price have roughly treble , '' he say . 

Black truffles yield 'fantastic ' 
The black truffle industry be enjoy it best ever season . 
Low yield have plague grower in recent year but Tim Terry from Tasmanian Truffle Enterprises say his harvest have triple this season and it be a similar story around Australia . 
`` There be certainly some very good yield on the mainland and in Western Australia there have be some fantastic yield of much old plantation of course , '' Mr Terry say . 

Suspension of trade talk cost farmer 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say the overnight suspension of world trade talk have cost Australian farmer $ 1.5 billion in potential new market . 
The G6 group of nation include Australia , Japan , the US and European Union fail to resolve five year of discussion about agricultural trade reform . 
Scott Mitchell from the NFF say the US fail to agree to further subsidy cut , while Europe would not drop it import barrier . 
`` All Australian agricultural industry be extremely disappointed at the suspension of the WTO [ World Trade Organisation ] negotiation overnight , '' Mr Mitchell say . 
`` This be a huge lost opportunity for Australian farmer to lock in the elimination of export subsidy , to lock in significant cut in agricultural subsidy be spend around the world and to lock in actual improvement in market access . '' 
Meanwhile Nationals leader Mark Vaile have play down speculation that he will now hand the trade portfolio over to Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran . 
`` I think that there 's still a lot more that can be do , a we 've get quite a busy agenda on the bi-lateral front with negotiation well under way with China and Malaysia and the ASEAN [ South East Asian Nations ] country and I 'm certainly keen to pursue those , '' Mr Vaile say . 
US farmer say they will fight to retain their current level of subsidy , now that the trade talk have stall . 
Lobby group , the US Farm Bureau , say farmer be not prepared to give ground until Europe offer more concession . 
The group 's spokesman , Chris Garza , say internal debate will now begin on the next US farm bill due next year , and farmer will attempt to lock in subsidy . 
`` What we 've see be , a these negotiation have go on country like the European Union have request more and more from the United States to give up , '' Mr Garza say . 
`` We feel a an organisation that there 's no reason to give up anything at this point . which mean we should not make any change to our farm bill so that when these negotiation do begin again , we 're still where we be before , and we still have something to give up if we have to give something up . '' 
America 's top trade official say the collapse of global trade talk mean the US presidential trade deal authority will now likely expire , before any WTO deal can be save and send to the US Congress . 
There have be a US push to complete a new world trade deal this year leave enough time for the US Congress to ratify it before the presidential trade deal authority expire next July , when the body could again amend any deal possibly kill it . 
US trade ambassador Susan Schwab say the bad will now likely happen . 
`` We do not expect to be able to use the current TPA [ US Trade Promotion Authority ] to enact a Doha Round agreement , if and when one come together , '' Ms Schwab say . 

Rare butterfly find in Arnhem Land 
A rare and endanger butterfly in north-east Arnhem Land be now a bit safer . 
The gove crow butterfly be previously think to live in only four small patch of rainforest , but now a fifth location have be confirm . 
Naturalist Ian Morris say he first saw the butterfly 30 year ago , but be only recently able to confirm it be the gove crow . 
`` It certainly extend it range by a few hundred kilometre , but probably do n't stop them be an endanger or threaten specie simply because the habitat they live in be so restricted and unique that any disturbance to that could soon cause a crash in their population , '' he say . 

Church offer support to stricken farmer 
Farmers in the dry part of Western Australia be hop for some divine intervention this week . 
Anglican Archbishop of Perth Roger Herft and regional Bishop Tom Wilmot be tour the mid-west and wheat belt , to meet with farmer and offer support . 
Bishop Wilmot say the turnout have be huge so far . 
`` One farmer say that it 's a bit like grief or have a death in the family , but there 's no burial , because every day you stand on the porch and you look out at the body , a it be , '' he say . 
`` I can sympathise with that because these people identify very closely with the land . There be a level of grief there , but a with all grief , it draw family together . 

Drought officer angry over job loss 
Community drought officer in Victoria 's Wimmera region be at a loss to explain why their job have be cut . 
Three of the four position be no longer be fund by the Victorian Government , even though the drought be linger across the region . 
Former community drought officer in Yarriambiac Shire , Faye Smith say they meet with the Department of Human Services and the State Drought Committee in Horsham yesterday but still do not know if they have a job . 
`` I be totally amazed , '' she say . 
`` To me it just seem the strange decision and now more than ever the community strengthening be need . 
`` I can not understand why the State Government would make the decision to wipe out the position when , a most people will tell you , that the situation now be probably as dire a it 's ever be . '' 

SA lose rural counsellor 
The number of rural financial counsellor in South Australia will be scale back , follow change to the way the service be provide . 
The Federal Government spend two year review the program and open up tender for a single , state-based provider in April . 
The service will now be run by the newly form Rural Financial Counselling South Australia . 
Spokesman John Voumard say it will allow counsellor to be allocate to area of need . 
`` There be period of demand and they occur at different time in different area , '' he say . 

Uranium shortage force commodity price up 
As Australia debate the merit of open up new uranium mine , analyst say a global shortage of the commodity be push up price . 
The spot price for uranium have jump $ US2 in the past week to $ US47.25 per pound . 
ANZ Bank commodity analyst Andrew Harrington say half of the world 's nuclear power be currently source from recycled nuclear weapon leave over from the Cold War . 
He say Australia 's massive reserve of uranium be in high demand for nuclear powered plant , because recycled uranium be run out . 
`` Mostly it be to do with the renew interest in uranium a a commodity , because the recycled uranium from nuclear weapon be start to decline , so the primary source of uranium come from mine need to make up for that shortfall , '' he say . 

Quarantine boost follow marine pest find 
The increased threat of an exotic marine pest have prompt Northern Territory authority to strengthen offshore quarantine measure . 
The black-striped mussel have be find twice in the past week on seized illegal fishing vessel inside Darwin Harbour . 
The pest be find after the boat be moor . 
Territory Fisheries spokesman Peter Zeroni say quarantine check will now be do five nautical mile offshore . 
`` As a result of event that occur last week , we have make a decision a an interim measure to now inspect all vessel out at the five nautical mile buoy in open water , where the risk be less , '' he say . 
`` The risk at 1.5 be low due to it be an open-water environment ... however , a a precautionary measure we have move the boat now far out . 
`` From an NT Fisheries perspective , the risk be manageable where they be . We be concern about the NT 's internal water , water within three nautical mile and probably out to 10 . 
`` We have a strong interest in ensure those water be free of aquatic pest . '' 

Grain price rise a US turn to ethanol 
The rise cost of fuel in America be have a positive impact on Australian wheat price , accord to an agriculture publication . 
More consumer in the US be turn to corn-based ethanol , increase corn consumption by 15 per cent to 60 million tonne and boost price by up to 20 per cent . 
Richard Koch from Profarmer say the US corn price set the basis for the global feed grain market , which will have spin offs for Australian wheat and canola grower . 
`` I 've see some analysis that indicate the value of soft commodity in the medium-term could increase six-fold , '' he say . 

AWB legal battle back before court 
The legal battle over the future of the oil-for-food inquiry be back in the Federal Court today . 
This time a challenge have be initiate by Commissioner Terence Cole , who do not want to participate in the case about AWB 's claim to withhold document from his inquiry . 
The Commissioner 's lawyer be ask the court to determine the legitimacy of AWB 's claim of legal professional privilege over 1,300 document . 

Farmers seek good food label law for online shopping 
Farmers say an oversight by Australia 's peak food regulator be allow fruit and vegetable to be sell on the Internet without new country-of-origin labelling . 
Food Standards Australia New Zealand ( FSANZ ) introduce the tougher label law last month after farmer fight for import food to be clearly identify . 
However , with major supermarket now offer online grocery sale , the rule do not apply . 
Brian Bond from the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association say FSANZ should have identify the issue . 
`` It 's obviously be an oversight by Food Standards Australia and New Zealand and it 's something that certainly need to be look at and if we can plug the gap we should , '' he say . 
`` We need sale and I guess this area of sale be go to increase rather than decrease so it 's certainly something that need address . '' 
Lydia Buchtmunn from FSANZ say the issue have not be overlook . 
`` Actually we 've be address that for quite a long time we 've be look at the whole label standard to look at thing perhaps that be home deliver , '' she say . 

US producer weary of resumption in Japan trading 
Cattle producer in the United States be not hopeful of a quick resumption of their beef trade to Japan , despite a successful tour of US meat plant by Japanese inspector . 
The beef trade be await confirmation that US beef will again be allow into Japan after a two-year bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( BSE ) -related ban . 
The ban be lift late last year but reimpose after early shipment be find to contain trace of spinal cord . 
Jay Truitt , from the National Cattlemens Beef Association , think many producer and processor might not want to supply Japan again . 
`` I think there 's some excitement , obviously , it 's temper , because history have be a good teacher for u , that we should n't get too excited , '' he say . 
`` More importantly though , from our perspective , be that we really look at our industry and we begin to now look sincerely at what be the opportunity for u in Japan and they 're still quite limited and we 're not go to over prepare for it , it 's an expensive market for u to function . 

No growth predict for south-west WA pasture 
The CSIRO say pasture growth rate in Western Australia 's south-west be shape up to be the bad in nearly 100 year . 
New satellite data show growth rate be expect to be down 60 per cent on last year , due to abnormal weather pattern . 
The CSIRO 's Dr Steve Gherhardi say , a a result , many farmer have reduce stock number to give paddock a spell . 
`` Even now , if farmer have have a break , they 'd need to make decision on how long they would want to defer that pasture to ensure that they 'll get some growth occur , '' he say . 

Drought , cost force farmer to cut water usage 
The number of irrigated Australian farm have drop a further 13 per cent , accord to a new report by the bureau of statistic . 
In the year 2004-05 , just over 35,000 Australian farm use irrigation , down 5,000 on the year before . 
The report show less water be be use to grow pasture and rice , although more be go into grow cotton . 
Doug Miell from the New South Wales Irrigators Council say the fall be partly due to drought , but also because of high water price . 
He say many irrigators be focus on crop , which give them a high return , or sell their water . 
`` There 's obviously a consolidation happen right across agriculture in the irrigation sector , there 's no difference in that regard , '' he say . 

Wool company look at partial integration 
The board of Australia 's two peak wool company be still talk up the industry 's future despite now have to look at way of join force without a full merger . 
Plans to unit Australian Wool Services ( AWS ) with Australian Wool Innovation be on hold while the Federal Government decide whether to help AWS pay off a $ 27 million overseas debt . 
Chairman Barry Walker be hopeful the Government will come to the rescue , but say the two company be look at how to integrate part of their organisation anyway . 
`` There be certainly major saving in run a single company , '' he say . 

Public interest test urge before hospital closure 
The Australian Medical Association ( AMA ) want all state government to introduce public interest test before downgrade or close any more public hospital in rural area . 
The doctor ' lobby group say after year of neglect , government should do whatever it take to keep country public hospital open and properly staffed . 
AMA rural reference group chairman Dr David Rivett say the test should examine how closure affect the health need of resident , local employment and the availability of other health service . 
`` We want to see the impact on the maintenance of skill of the medical workforce factor in , the impact on the health need of the local community and that include the social dislocation they have when they have to travel many mile to seek treatment , '' he say . 
`` We want to see the impact of employment on the community when people have to travel with sick child to the city and give up their job for day or week , and we want to see the availability of alternative resource all factor into the equation . '' 

US lamb market set to slow down 
There be a warning for lamb producer today that growth in the US market be set to slow down over the next year . 
Sales of our lamb to the US grow by 28 per cent between 2004 and 2005 to become Australia 's high value market worth $ 327 million . 
But Shane O'Hara from the Australian Lamb Company say export be under pressure from similar factor to here , like competition from cheap meat like chicken . 
`` We 've see some high fuel cost , that 's have a big pinch on disposable income , '' he say . 

US blame Europe for collapse of trade talk 
The blame game have start follow the collapse of the Doha world trade talk . 
Key nation have fail to agree on how to cut farm and industrial tariff , and US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns be blame Europe 's refusal to let more beef in . 
But Andrew McCallum from Meat and Livestock Australia say the trade talk do not detail individual agricultural product . 
`` I think what Johanns have do have just highlight the beef issue a an example , '' he say . 

Fruit wholesaler say banana return increase 
A leading Queensland fruit wholesaler say he be surprised that banana be be blame for a high than expect rise in inflation . 
Economists blame skyrocket banana price , as well a fuel cost , for the 1.6 per cent jump in the June quarter Consumer Price Index . 
More than 90 per cent of the Australian banana crop be wipe out earlier this year when cyclone Larry hit far north Queensland . 
Peter Kedwell from the Brisbane Markets say while volume be down , return be actually up . 
`` Bananas [ on ] average use to be around $ 15 to $ 20 a box , now it 's $ 150 a box , '' he say . 

Livestock transporter want more rationalisation 
There be call today for more rationalisation and enforcement of legislation in the livestock transport sector . 
Jim Cooper be the depart owner of the nation 's large livestock trucking fleet , Road Trains of Australia . 
He have just sell his livestock fleet to another operator and believe it be a necessary step . 
Mr Cooper will keep his other transport business and concentrate on the grow resource sector . 
`` The way the mining sector 's regulated ... yes we can work within the legislation and compliance within the mining industry , '' he say . 
`` I certainly see some of the service for the remote area cattle haulage pull back . I think a lot of the road train , whether they be RTA or Hampton 's , operate very much like a taxi rank . 

Trip may have clear up river diversion concern 
Local Aboriginal people may now be more open to the idea of expand a Northern Territory lead and zinc mine . 
Xstrata be currently seek environmental approval to move the McArthur River five and a half kilometre , so it mine can become an open-cut operation . 
The company recently take a group of traditional owner to a coal mine in Victoria to see first hand what river diversion involve . 
John Moriarty , the chairman of the Borroloola Community Reference Group , think the trip might have clear up some concern . 

Farmer hop assistance package will keep town afloat 
The Western Australian Government have announce an assistance package for farmer in some of the State 's most severely drought-affected region . 
Farmer Glenn Thomas be one of 150 local at a dry season crisis meeting in the wheatbelt town of Mullewa yesterday . 
Although detail of the package be not yet know , Mr Thomas hop it will help to keep his community afloat through the bad farming year he have ever know . 
`` There 's different situation throughout the shire . There 's many in the outlying area that have really only have one good season in the last five or six and , really , that 's just not enough to get back on your foot , '' he say . 

Mental health concern switch to young people in rural area 
The National Mental Health Initiative have raise concern about the lack of information available about how the drought have affect young people in rural Australia . 
Craig Hodges from beyondblue say the last survey be carry out in the late 1990s and data be up to 10-years-old . 
He say the spin-off from the drought be significant , with about a quarter of young people affect by depression , anxiety and other mental health issue . 
`` We only get this data every five to 10 year and the last one that be take be in the late 90 which show there be roughly one in four young woman experience depression and one in six young men experience depression , '' he say . 
`` They see what be happen with their parent , how parent respond to tough time on the farm and that also may mean there 's less disposable income so that might mean they ca n't do the thing they once do , so the spin-off be quite significant . '' 
The drought be also affect young people choice at school . 
At Redbank Catholic College in the west of central New South Wales , 68 student from across the state be study agriculture in their final year . 
Just a few say they will go onto work in the sector . 

AWB announces restructure 
Wheat exporter AWB have announce a further restructure to improve transparency but say it be not a result of the oil-for-food scandal . 
Under the plan AWB International , which hold the licence for the single desk for export , will be far separate from the company 's corporate division . 
It will have an independent board and management team , and it own governance and committee structure . 
AWB chairman Brendan Stewart say the change be a result of feedback from grower group and grower and be not a knee-jerk reaction to the Cole inquiry . 
`` These change that we be make have absolutely nothing to do with the Cole inquiry , these be change that we have initiate 18 month ago , '' he say . 
`` They have be a long time come , they have be a process of detailed analysis and impact so that we deliver on the key promise that we give to grower . '' 
Mr Stewart reject any suggestion from grower group that it be too little too late . 
`` I don ' think that 's the case at all , '' he say . 
Grains analyst Malcolm Bartholomaeus say there be major flaw in the restructure because the wheat sale division will not be part of AWB International and still will not be accountable enough . 
`` One of the implication be that the situation we 've see with the Iraq inquiry and the scandal there , and potentially the allegation of other payment be make in other market place , basically that could still happen again and put the single desk at risk with no control over the situation by AWB , '' he say . 
AWB have reject the suggestion . 
Meanwhile AWB have cut it estimate before-tax profit by between 20 to 25 per cent . 
The company say the drought have lead to lower merchandise and fertiliser sale , and result have also be affect by difficult ongoing trading condition and volatile world market . 
Profits for the year end September 30 be expect to drop from a forecast $ 184.5 million to around $ 140 million . 

Wool company sign merger MOU 
Australia 's two peak wool company will press on with a merger , despite an outstanding $ 27 million debt . 
Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) and Australian Wool Services ( AWS ) have be in long-running talk about a merger , but the stumbling block have be AWS 's outstanding debt to a UK-based superannuation fund . 
The two company have now sign a memorandum of understand to look at the legal and financial implication of integration with work to start immediately . 
The Federal Government have be approach to help pay off the debt , but the company now say they will work together to solve the issue . 

Producers tell not to panic over Japanese beef decision 
Japan have lift it ban on US beef but the expert say Australian producer do not need to panic just yet . 
Japan will only accept US beef under 20 month of age and from a limited number of accredited meat plant . 
Meat and Livestock Australia say Australian export to Japan should remain steady at around 390,000 tonne a year . 
Malcolm Foster from the Australian Lotfeeders Association do not think the US will pose any short-term threat and say other market be available anyway . 
`` The alternate market to Japan be obviously other Asian market , in particular Korea , Taiwan and those market , although market in the Middle East and even market in Russia be start to open up now for Australian exporter , '' he say . 
`` So there be other market but Japan will always be a very important one for u . '' 
US cattleman be upset over the tough restriction impose by Tokyo . 
The National Cattlemen 's Beef Association argue Japan 's partial reopening be just a first step toward full resumption of trade worth $ US1.4 billion , before America lose the market to Australia follow a 2003 mad cow case . 
The association 's Jay Truitt say Tokyo 's limit on US cattle age and number of plant that can ship be far too restrictive . 
`` Everyone of these restriction add cost to the system - that 's not what we want , '' he say . 

Food price hit 15-year high 
Australia have post it big increase in food price in 15 year . 
Rabobank say the figure , which be be blame for a big jump in inflation , show an 8.3 per cent rise in food cost . 
But head of food and agribusiness research Bill Cordingley say the rise be mainly drive by soar banana price , with fruit price up a stunning 52 per cent for the June quarter . 
Prices rise for citrus fruit , apple , melon and strawberry , due to consumer demand for an alternative to bananas . 

AWB restructure not enough , say US lobby group 
America 's peak grain lobby group claim a major restructure announce by wheat exporter AWB be just for show . 
AWB have announce a multi-million dollar plan to separate it export arm AWB International from it corporate division . 
As part of a push for good corporate governance , AWB International will continue to manage the single desk for wheat export , but have it own management team and board . 
Rebecca Coleman from US Wheat Associates say it still want the AWB 's monopoly on export remove . 
`` US wheat do not think that it be go to make a difference , we think that it 's just another show game and a shifting of box , '' she say . 
`` US Wheat 's concern have always be the power of the monopoly board , the way that they function in distort trade and so a shifting of box around do n't change the monopoly structure . '' 
Australia 's peak body , the Grains Council , will not comment on AWB 's restructure plan . 
In the wake of yesterday 's announcement , AWB share fell by 33 cent but recover to finish at $ 3.85 , just five cent below the opening price . 
There have be little movement on the company 's share price today , and Austock Agribusiness analyst Paul Jensz say the market have react positively . 
`` With this restructure I think investor probably look at it a a first small step of a long road of recovery , '' he say . 
`` Investors broadly be say that this level around $ 3.50- $ 3.90 be the bottom of AWB at this point . '' 

Crop forecast 
Winter crop forecast in the eastern state have have a remarkable turnaround due to recent widespread rain . 
Grain handler , Graincorp , say early prospect for this season be dismal , but after late break in June and July , it be expect receivals of around 9 million tonne . 
Managing director Tom Keene say that be on par with the past two season . 
`` Victoria around 3 million tonne and around 5 million tonne in New South Wales , Queensland we would expect to get around 1 million tonne , '' he say . 

Biofuels Institute to be base in SA 
Alternative feedstock to supply the grow alternative fuel industry will be the focus of a new federally-funded Australian Biofuels Institute . 

Ad campaign to highlight abuse of migrant visa program 
The union movement have launch a campaign to highlight misuse of the skilled migrant visa program . 
Under the 457 program , employer like abattoir can import skilled worker when they can not be find locally . 
Unions have now launch a $ 300,000 ad campaign highlight abuse of the scheme and Graeme Bird from the Meat Industry Employees Union say they want action . 

Govt urge to stop river environmental flow 
Water shortage in western Victoria be now so severe that farmer be ask the State Government to halt environmental flow into river . 
With reservoir only 7 per cent full , farmer be face the prospect of no available water to fill house dam and pay to cart the water they need for livestock and crop spraying . 
President of the Victorian Farmers Federation Simon Ramsay say if there be not enough rain in August , water for river should be re-allocated to farm and home . 
`` The 2,859 megalitres that sits under the bulk entitlement for environmental flow would be good use and have a great impact to provide water for stock and domestic use , if need , rather than the sort of nil effect it will have flush down the Wimmera River , '' he say . 
Meanwhile Australia need five year of average rainfall to rebuild water level in irrigation storage . 
That be the view of Professor Wayne Meyer , chief scientist at the Co-operative Research Centre for Irrigation Futures . 
Irrigators have not have full water allocation since 2001 and Professor Meyer say ongoing low rainfall have reduce the amount of water available by a third . 
`` If you look at the storage situation it will take several year of even average rainfall to get our storage back up to those , for example , that we have at the end of the 90 , early part of 2000 , '' he say . 

McGauran join push to lift ban on GM crop 
There be grow pressure on the state to lift their ban on commercial trial of genetically modify ( GM ) crop . 
State government have power over land which they have use to impose the ban . 
Now federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have join farm group in call for the moratorium to be lift , say there be environmental and economic benefit from the technology . 
`` I believe the state ' opposition to genetically modified crop be purely philosophical or ideological , it make no economic or environmental sense , '' he say . 
`` Farmers should make the decision for themselves base on their reading of the marketplace . 

New patrol boat to join illegal fishing fight 
A new Navy patrol boat design to monitor Australia 's northern water for illegal fishing will be commission at Port Pirie in South Australia tomorrow . 
The Armidale class ship , to be call HMAS Pirie , be the late in a new fleet of ship dedicate to border security operation . 
Lieutenant Commander Kimbal Dunsmore , command officer of the new vessel , say the Navy be now much well equip to intercept and board illegal fishing boat . 
`` These ship have cut edge technology . They be a very , very complex machine that offer good endurance , good habitability , long time on task and a good capability , '' he say . 

Abattoir fish project likely to expand 
The first attempt at grow fish in waste water from abattoir have be successfully carry out in South Australia . 
The lamb exporter , Tatiara Meat Company , use about 1 million litre of water a day in it operation . 
Most of it be recycle , but waste water hold in storage pond be now be use to grow goldfish , barramundi and carp , purify the water so it can be use to grow fodder for livestock . 
Environmental officer Fil Farina say the project be likely to expand . 

Qld police investigate crop sabotage 
North Queensland police be investigate the sabotage of crop in the horticulture district of Bowen . 
Crops have be deliberately poison on four farm , cause a million dollar ' damage to paddock of watermelon , bean , tomato and capsicum . 
Bowen company Queensland Seedlings lose thousand of plant in a similar attack in 2002 , and no one have ever be charge . 
Spokesman Andrew Paterson supply seedling to some of the affected farmer and say the damage have create a lot of fear and uncertainty . 
`` Basically someone out there , or person , or person , I do n't know , be hold u all to ransom , '' he say . 

PM visit cyclone Larry affect community 
Prime Minister John Howard be in north Queensland today to meet victim of cyclone Larry , visit community between Innisfail and Tully . 
Banana grower who have their crop wipe out will ask the PM to extend labour support scheme . 

US drought hit sheep flock 
The drought in the United States have not just hit the grain crop . 
The late US Department of Agriculture figure have show the nation 's sheep flock have fall by 30,000 to 7.7 million head , dent hope that number be rebuild . 
Meat and Livestock Australia say that be likely to increase US reliance on import from country like Australia for a number of year . 

Qld shearer win Diamond Shears comp 
A shearer from southern inland Queensland have win the the Diamond Shears competition , run for the first time in five year at Longreach over the weekend . 
Once regard a the most prestigious shear event in the southern hemisphere , organiser have battle insurance problem but manage to attract shearer from three state and New Zealand for this year 's event . 
Winner Laurie Bateman say he hop it will help entice more young people into the wool industry . 
`` I think if we can keep these sport shear competition go , we may be able to entice a few more rural people out of the town to come into our industry , '' he say . 
`` I can see it be the best show in Australia down the track . Anybody can shear a sheep or come into a shearing shed , wool handle , press , class , if you be fit and keen enough to get out there and earn a bit of money . '' 

Meat industry agreement to tackle skilled visa abuse 
The Australian Meat Industry Council be try to stamp out abuse of the program to import skilled migrant to fill labour shortage . 
Unions claim some employer be breach the rule by underpay worker , use skilled worker to perform unskilled job and not provide proper training . 
The Immigration Department have freeze visa application until the concern be address . 
Chief executive Kevin Cottrell say a labour agreement be be negotiate to ensure all sector stay within the law . 

Grains Council await AWB restructure detail 
Four day after news of a major restructure at wheat exporter AWB , the nation 's peak grain body say it still need more detail before it can comment . 
AWB have announce the separation of it export and corporate arm , to improve transparency . 
The Grains Council say it will continue to support the current system , and will not endorse any restructure proposal until the `` oil for food '' inquiry be over . 
Chairman Murray Jones have reject suggestion the council be respond too slowly . 
`` All AWB have give u be the press release and so we really have n't get any further detail , '' he say . 
`` They 've speak themselves about give further detail over the period of time . 

Qld unveil $ 1bn Toowoomba-Gladstone rail link 
The Queensland Government have commit a billion dollar to complete a railway link between Toowoomba and the expand central port of Gladstone . 
Premier Peter Beattie say the 200 kilometre of rail will solve a `` missing link '' in the state 's rail system . 
It will mainly be use to transport billion of tonne of coal from the Stuart Basin to port , but Everald Compton from the Australian Inland Expressway Project say grain grower will also benefit . 
`` Twenty million tonne of coal a year will go out on the line but in addition it will mean that all the grain crop , the cotton and beef and all type of product can also use the port of Gladstone , which they be unable to do now , '' he say . 

Wool grower seek speedy industry body merger 
A rebel group of wool grower say a propose merger between the industry 's two peak body must be complete before producer be ask to vote to increase levy later this year . 
Late last week , Australian Wool Innovation and Australian Wool Services sign a deal to look at the legal and financial implication of integration . 
Martin Oppenheimer from the Australian Wool Growers Association have welcome the move , and say it need to happen quickly . 
`` The issue that we have now , move forward , we 've get Woolpoll 2006 come up this December that will decide how much wool tax that wool grower will be spend for the next three year , '' he say . 
`` We need to know what the strategic plan be of the new merge entity . 
`` We ca n't be vote on a level of wool tax for the next three year if we do n't know what the company will look like or what it goal will be . '' 
In New South Wales , grower from the Goulburn-Yass branch of the Superfine Wool Growers Association vote unanimously to support the agreement at a meeting on Friday night . 
Chairman John Ive say the merger talk have be drag on for too long . 
`` With this sort of stand-off position between the two body , it be n't give good vibe to wool grower , '' he say . 

Irrigators push for bore water sale to Toowoomba 
Irrigators on Queensland 's Darling Downs say they will push ahead with a plan to sell water to the Toowoomba City Council , after resident overwhelmingly vote against use recycled water . 
At a referendum on Saturday , 62 per cent of Toowoomba resident say they be not prepare to use treated waste water to alleviate shortage . 
John McVeigh , from lobby group NuWater , say irrigators can sell 5,000 megalitres of bore water to the city each year . 
`` Irrigators in our part of the world have put on the table a concept of urban rural water trade , now that 's a concept that be get support from CSIRO and be certainly something that have be practise in Israel and California , '' he say . 

Shellfish disease spread off Vic coast 
Abalone diver and fishery officer have be unable to stop the spread of a herpes-like disease , which be kill shellfish off the coast of south-west Victoria . 
A 10 kilometre no diving and fishing zone be implement off Port Fairy last month , but ganglioneuritis be now kill abalone a kilometre outside the boundary . 
Mark Gervis , from South Ocean Mariculture , say as well a affect wild stock , the disease have hit on-shore abalone fish farm hard . 

Online grain exchange near launch 
A consortium of agriculture and finance industry expert say it be almost ready to launch an Internet trading system for grain , oil seed and legume . 
Wheat be the only commodity to be restrict to trade only in Australia . 
Con Galtos from the Australian Grain Exchange be in negotiation with the major grain handle company to talk up the benefit . 
He say the system will give grower access to every price be offer in the international market place . 
`` The grower will know that the price that they be offer for their grain be the price that be offer for everybody else 's grain , in other word it create a level playing field , '' he say . 

Wheat belt community tackle achohol-related death 
Communities in WA 's wheat belt be try to halt the grow number of alcohol-related death in the region . 
The Wheatbelt Public Health Unit will work with the police to make drinking venue safer by train bar staff to stop serve customer when they have have enough . 
Spokeswoman Julia Dick say most people would be shock at just how many people be kill by alcohol each year . 
`` Probably about 15 death a year in the wheat belt be attributable to alcohol . There 's about a further 2000 people hospitalise each year because of excessive alcohol use , '' she say . 
`` It come at a financial cost of about $ 5.5 million , which be an enormous amount of money . 

Tax review hit agribusiness share 
Nervous investor have wipe up to 25 per cent off the value of a number of company involve in agribusiness manage investment scheme . 
Companies include Great Southern , Timbercorp and Wilmott Forests have be hit in recent week . 
Investment analyst Steve Johnson say some of the uncertainty be be cause by a federal review of the tax incentive offer for the scheme , which include timber , grape , almond and olive . 
`` Most other business certainly be n't as volatile a this , it would be a 25 per cent fall , I would say , in the last 3 week , '' he say . 

US blame for trade talk impasse 
US President George W Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair say they will make a final effort to save stall global trade talk after a weekend meeting at the White House . 
The Doha talk be at standstill after major trade power fail to reach agreement on reform to international farm trade . 
The European Commission 's Ambassador to Australia , Bruno Julian , say Europe have offer to cut tariff on import from 80 per cent to 50 per cent , and blame the US for the impasse . 
He say it be up to the US to cut it $ 26 billion in domestic subsidy to farmer . 

Money need to be spend on port upgrade , inquiry chief say 
The head of a federal inquiry into port , rail and road infrastructure say most of the nation 's significant port need upgrade worth around $ 80 million each . 
Nationals Member for Hinkler in Queensland Paul Neville say money will need to be spend to protect Australian export of mineral , grain , timber and mineral sand . 
He say transport network in general be have trouble keep up with the need of the export sector . 
`` We have find that at nearly every port there be a need for some sort of improvement to the connectivity between the main road and rail freight truck route and the port themselves , '' he say . 
`` Now it vary from port to port and at one it might be a new rail connection , in another one it might be a ring road around the port and another the widening of the channel into the port . 
`` We feel they could probably do it a bit well . '' 

PM 's news an 'enormous relief ' in rural Aust 
There have be a largely warm response to Prime Minister John Howard 's decision to stay on and fight the next federal election . 
Mr Howard announce yesterday that he would not be hand over the top job to Treasurer Peter Costello . 
Mark Patterson , from Currie Communications , expect country Australia to be happy with the move , which should increase the chance of another Coalition victory . 

Benetton wool deal collapse 
A major deal to double Australian wool sale to Italian fashion giant Benetton have collapse . 
The $ 1.6 million deal to step up sale to 4 million kilogram a year be only announce two week ago and would have make Benetton one of Australia 's big wool retailer . 
Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) will not go into detail , but say since the announcement issue have come up which can not be resolve by either company . 
Chief executive Len Stephens be urge others not to use the collapse a an excuse to destabilise the wool industry . 

Herbicide use to poison crop , police say 
Police in north Queensland have confirm that the common herbicide glyphosate be use to poison up to 40 hectare of fruit and vegetable crop near Bowen . 
A special Queensland Government task force have be set up in the region , to find out how the poison , which be commonly know a Roundup , get into the system in the first place . 
One million dollar damage have be cause to the crop and police now suspect a water source associate with crop spraying be contaminate . 
Detective Inspector Warren Webber say the contamination be be treat a an act of sabotage . 
`` We obviously have look specifically in relation to which farm etc be be spray and that sort of thing , '' he say . 

1080 poison not under threat in animal welfare strategy 
Humane control method will have to be use in the battle against pest animal , under the new Australian animal welfare strategy . 
The strategy , to be finalise by the end of the year , will emphasise the need for ongoing training and accreditation in pest control , whether it be for wild dog or cane toad . 
But Tony English from the Wild Animal Working Group say the widely use toxin 1080 be not under threat at this stage . 
`` Not in the short term - 1080 at the moment be still too valuable a toxin for u for use in say wild dog and fox , that there 's no suggestion at all that we would be look to phase out 1080 , '' he say . 
`` We can start to look for new toxin and that 's happen but there be some research be do to incorporate analgesic drug , pain kill drug with the 1080 to make it perhaps more humane than it currently be . 

Goats theft to hurt student 
The head of an agricultural college in western Queensland say the theft of up to 300 boer goat will have a major impact on breeding and teaching program . 
Ten pure breed buck , 90 do and up to 200 kid value at $ 13,000 be steal from the property , Manningham , near Longreach . 
Peter Scott from the Australian Agricultural College Corporation say the theft will hurt student . 
`` Thirteen thousand dollar be a significant commercial loss for u because all our pastoral operation must support themselves , but you know 90 do out of our breeding herd that 's a significant loss , '' he say . 
`` We 're probably try to develop a really good commercial meat goat flock so that we 've get a good model for teach and demonstration purpose . '' 

New food label law cover Internet shopping : FSANZ 
Food Standards Australia and New Zealand ( FSANZ ) say Internet grocery sale be cover by new country of origin label law . 
Horticulturists have raise concern that the labelling law introduce in June have fail to include the rapidly grow online market . 
At the time , the nation 's food regulator say it would call for industry input to fix the problem . 

Debris cause problem for scallop fisher 
Scallop fisher have hit a snag while harvest reopen scallop bed off the east coast of Tasmania . 
Debris from a failed fishing venture in the 1980s be cause problem for operator , with dredge become tangle in abandon net and line . 
It have be 20 year since the scallop bed near Triabunna have be open for fishing and John Hammond from the Scallop Association of Tasmania say it be a mess . 
`` The rubbish that 's come up be quite extraordinary really , '' he say . 
`` Plastics and monofilament shark net and that type of thing that be stuff inside these plastic bag to catch the spat at the bottom 's sort of eat out of the bag , the actual bag that the plastic be stuff into . 

Elders Rural Bank profit up 10pc 
Elders Rural Bank have announce a $ 30.7 million profit for the past financial year , up 10 per cent on the previous year . 
The bank be attribute it success to it focus on the rural sector , claim country Australia be be ignore by the big bank . 

Milk shortage force processor to increase price 
Milk shortage cause by dry condition in Western Australia have force processor to increase their farm gate milk price . 
The New Zealand-based parent company of Peters and Brownes , Fonterra , have announce a one cent per litre step up for spring . 
But Tony Pratico from the WA Farmers Federation say price need to be substantially raise now . 
`` I think the processor have to start review it now because the milk 's price have to move forward or else on one of the processor here in Western Australia will find themselves without milk , '' he say . 

Wimmera economy hard hit by drought 
The linger effect of the drought and ongoing tough seasonal condition in Victoria 's grain grow Wimmera region be still hit the region 's economy . 
The Wimmera Development Association say business be feel the flow-on effect of lose $ 568 million in grain-related income into the region in 2004 . 
Chief executive director Phillip Sabien say the situation have not improve for many rural town . 

One in 12 year event behind weather pattern , say forecaster 
A one in 12 year weather event be create an unusually wet winter in the north of Australia but dry condition in the south , accord to a Queensland forecaster . 
Dr Roger Stone say the sub-tropical ridge have drop below the Australian continent to the south of Tasmania this year . 
He say it be an important cyclical event which might explain this winter 's condition . 
`` It 's the second most important factor after the El Nino SOI system , '' he say . 
`` As people may have notice it 's be way south , it give u a lot of easterly or south easterly on to the Queensland coast , but also tend to bring in a bit more moisture than might normally be the case . 
`` It tend to get a bit too wet up around Cairns in this type of year , but it can help the situation in central Queensland . 

AWB lower estimate pool return 
Wheat exporter AWB have lower it estimated pool return for the come harvest by $ 4 a tonne for all wheat grade except durham . 
The company say price have be affect by fluctuate world price , due to a good forecast for the spring crop in North America . 

Rural sector 'can cope ' with rate rise 
A rural lender say the interest rate rise , announce by the Reserve Bank today , will not cause panic among farmer . 
Neil Dobbin , the head of rural banking for Rabobank Australia , say many farmer have already fix their loan rate and can absorb the rise . 
But he say those who have recently acquire a new property or increase their borrowing may feel the pinch . 
He also say a dollar at 76 cent US do not help export income . 
Mr Dobbin say the main cost concern farmer have be rise fuel and fertiliser bill . 
`` I think the rural sector can cope with this rise , '' he say . 
`` Seasonal condition at this stage be generally pretty good , a lot of the commodity price be in sound position . 

Trade policy expert talk up possibility of Japan FTA 
An expert on trade policy say the prospect for a lucrative free trade agreement ( FTA ) between Australia and Japan have never be well . 
Foreign Minister Alexander Downer discuss a possible FTA with the Japanese Prime Minister in Tokyo yesterday and both country be complete a feasibility study . 
Dr Ann Capling from Melbourne University be study the potential benefit of such an agreement , which be flatly reject by the Japanese Government in 2002 . 
Japan be already Australia 's most important trading partner , but quota and high tariff continue to restrict export of beef , dairy , pork , grain , oilseed , and fruit , and vegetable . 
Dr Capling say there be increase pressure on Japan to allow more of these supply in . 

US confident of maintain Iraq wheat market 
Iraq be now America 's fourth large wheat customer and the United States see continue strong purchase in a market once firmly in Australia 's court . 
Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns be in Baghdad for farm co-operation meeting with Iraqi official this week . 
And despite an expect strong Iraqi wheat harvest this year , Mr Johanns be confident Iraq will continue a a solid US customer . 
`` We now have about 72 per cent of the market share . To translate that into number , that 's about 2.3 tonne in the 05-06 market year , '' he say . 

Online trading open market to more investor : trader 
Day one of online trading at the Chicago Board of Trade have close , represent a new era for the world 's large commodity trader . 
The Board of Trade website say the introduction of electronic trading of agricultural future contract be part of it global expansion plan . 
Australian trader Corrie Mcgrath say pit trader tend to operate for themselves , while trade online open up the market to a whole new body of investor . 
`` Opening up to electronic market mean that a small person can come in through a broker and trade online themselves , '' she say . 

Graincorp to keep some grain receival sit open 
Graincorp have agree not to axe 23 of the 108 grain receival sit earmark for closure a part of it business rationalisation plan in the eastern state . 
Following the announcement of silo closure earlier this year , Graincorp agree to further negotiation with silo committee , who vow to fight to keep their local silo open . 
The company have confirm they will keep seven of the 23 site open for a year in Victoria and three in central Queensland . 
It be not yet know what other sit across New South Wales will remain open and how much the move will cost the company . 
Graincorp be expect to release further detail tomorrow . 
In Victoria , the Wimmera have be the most persuasive , save four of eight site earmark for closure . 
Ron Jackson , from Patchewollock in the Mallee region , say it be only a 12 month reprieve . 

Fox find may prove costly 
There be irrefutable proof that fox be alive and thrive in Tasmania after the discovery of a still warm carcass by a farmer in the Northern Midlands yesterday . 
It be believe the animal have recently be hit by a car . 
Tasmania have be consider fox free and the pest could cost the state economy $ 8 million a year if it get a foothold . 
Wildlife biologist Nick Mooney say the fox , a young adult male , be likely to have be bear in Tasmania . 
He say it be the evidence that will finally silence the sceptic . 
`` We 've have proof for year we believe , '' he say . 
`` This be just a most unfortunate and other piece of evidence , so I would have love to have not see anything ever again . 

Nursery industry lose billion in sale 
Queensland 's big plant-based rural industry be have , by it own admission , it bad year in two decade . 
The nursery industry have be worth about half a billion dollar in sale to domestic and export market a year . 
But a drought in the south of the state have cut production and mean a 40 per cent drop in sale to gardener . 
In the north , Cairns nursery operator Daryl Madder say some owner be find the damage to their stock from cyclone Larry be bad than first thought . 
`` What we do n't realise at the time be the stock be blow over , '' he say . 

Remote family seek boost in allowance 
Families of remote secondary student in the Northern Territory be call for a high interstate boarding and travel allowance . 
The Federal Government already provide boarding allowance for all isolated child , worth about $ 7,000 a year . 
But Tina McFarlane , from Stylo Station near Mataranka , say the Territory Government should provide extra fund to send isolated child interstate . 
She have even consider lease the station to move the family closer to secondary schooling in Queensland . 
`` I have a daughter go into secondary school and she have close family in Toowoomba , '' Ms McFarlane say . 
`` There be board school in the NT , but it 's nearly quicker to go interstate than to Alice and where there be family . 

Producers stop cull sheep 
Thanks to some much need rain in Western Australia , producer in Northampton in the state 's wheatbelt region have now stop cull their sheep . 
In the northern agricultural region , around 13,000 lamb and ewe have be destroy and another 15,000 have die , because the season have be too hard . 
Craig Walker from Elders say it be a relief that producer can stop culling , now that there be some green pick around . 
`` People do n't make that decision light-heartedly , '' he say . 

Egg producer to be audit 
Victorian egg producer be step up their quality assurance campaign , with a new system to ensure consumer get the egg product they pay for . 
Egg farmer produce under the HenCare label will be audit to ensure they meet free-range farming , animal welfare and biosecurity standard . 
The president of the Victorian Farmers Federation egg group , Meg Parkinson , say the campaign be design to eliminate suspicion that egg product be often sell under false label . 
`` There have always be a push by some people to say that egg farmer do n't do thing very well and the egg in the carton be not the one they say on the label , '' she say . 

Chlorine use to eradicate exotic marine pest 
An exotic marine pest have be eradicate , once again , from boat moor off Darwin Harbour . 
The black strip mussel be find on three illegal fish boat , apprehend in Australian water . 
Peter Zeroni , from the Northern Territory Fisheries Department , say chlorine be use to kill the mussel , but monitoring will continue . 
`` The vessel be treat in open water by a contractor with AFMA , '' he say . 
`` The chlorine we use to treat the vessel obviously affect the mussel . The chlorine will have go into the woodwork and be likely to kill anything else that 's in there . 
`` So we be pretty confident those boat be safe now . However a a precautionary measure , they will be re-dived every month , any vessel of hull that be moor in the harbour will be re-dived on an ongoing basis . 

Company seek new grower to help meet demand 
A major Victorian company hop to produce an extra million kilogram of fresh snow pea each year by recruit new grower in south-east Queensland . 
The company , Select Produce , say it have be lure by water security and the favourable climate in the Bundaberg/Childers salad bowl . 
The business supply the two major supermarket chain , with most of it produce come from Victoria . 
But Queensland manager Lyle Wyatt say the company be recruit grower in the Wide Bay area to help it meet demand all year round . 

CDMA network replacement on track : Telstra 
Telstra have reject suggestion the rollout of it new mobile phone network in rural Australia be face major technical difficulty . 
Reports today claim trial of the billion dollar 3G network show the technology be not up to scratch and will not be able to provide the same quality and range a the current CDMA network . 
Warwick Ponder from Telstra deny the claim , say the program be still on track to replace CDMA by 2008 . 
`` We still stand by what we 've say all along about this network , '' he say . 
`` Today 's story in the Australian Financial Review be a bit like speculate about the performance of a racing car before the wheel have even be fit . 

More men call depression hotline 
A national hotline to help men in rural area cope with depression have receive 500 call in it first month . 
Chairman of beyondblue Jeff Kennett say 40 per cent of caller have be men , up from just 5 per cent . 
Mr Kennett say be able to receive help anonymously from even the most remote area seem to be make a difference . 
`` Unfortunately , depression be very prevalent throughout rural Australia and particularly among young men , '' he say . 
`` So what we hope with this beyondblue information line be to give men the capacity , wherever and however isolate their environment may be , for the price of a local call to seek direction and help a to what to do in overcome their depressive illness . '' 

Senate committee examines petrol collusion claim 
Widespread rumour of collusion or price fixing between petrol company will be examine by a Senate committee in Canberra today . 
Chairman of the Senate Economics Committee George Brandis say the inquiry will investigate issue that may contribute to high petrol and diesel price . 
Senator Brandis say the main focus will be try to uncover the truth about collusion . 
`` What we want to address , in particular , be the relationship between the oil major and I be not say that there be any anti-competitive practice , but there have be suggestion of that go back many year , '' he say . 
`` But I think the point to be make be that this suggestion have be about for year but it have never be prove . 
`` The ACCC have examine the matter and it have never find the existence of anti-competitive conduct . '' 
The committee will also look at the financial viability of ethanol and whether fuel tax should be reduce . 

Project aim to boost zinc production at Mt Isa mine 
Resources company Xstrata have announce a $ 160 million project to turn it Mount Isa zinc mine into one of the world 's large . 
Fred White , general manager for zinc metallurgical processing , say production will rise from 5 million tonne a year to 8 million by the second half of 2008 . 
He say the project also mean more job for the region . 
`` We 're look at , for the duration of the project , have up to 200 extra people work in the concentrator provide construction engineering and contracting service , so it 's a good story for the area , '' he say . 

Hunters dismiss fox fight call 
A call from the Tasmanian Government for community help to hunt down fox have be dismiss a a public relation stunt by professional hunter . 
With the discovery of a dead fox in the northern midlands a few day ago , the Government want a task force of more than 100 people to track down the pest . 
But Peter Dark from the Field and Game Association say it be an old idea that do not work first time around . 
`` It 's all very well to say 'we 'll get a hundred hunter ' , '' he say . 

Graincorp to upgrade infrastructure 
Eastern state ' grain handler Graincorp will spend $ 25 million on a major upgrade before this harvest . 
Most of the money will be spend on good infrastructure at silo , along with appoint grain service manager at the 77 big receival site . 

Taiwan market remain closed to cherry grower 
Cherry grower lock out of their $ 7 million market to Taiwan will not be allow back in this year . 
Most mainland region be ban from export fruit in January because grower could not prove their cherry be free of the Queensland fruit fly . 
David Minnis from the Cherry Industry Advisory Committee say trial to treat fruit for fruit fly will not finish until January next year . 
`` It seem a long time away I know , but we 've get to wait till the next season to do the full verification trial , then the evidence be write up in a format that we will then submit to the Taiwanese official , '' he say . 

Draft seed import regulation worry grower 
Cut flower grower in northern Australia be renew their call for more time to comment on draft change to seed import regulation . 
Biosecurity Australia be review the regulation , which Darwin grower Jan Hintze say will impact on flower breeding . 
She say they will also make it hard to conserve specie like ginger , which be under threat from timber harvest across Asia . 
`` I think it 's a significant role that Australia should play within it sphere of interest , '' she say . 
`` I mean these people that live in country in South-East Asia and Asia , they be really concern about the loss of this material too , but they ca n't save it all on their own . 

Frosty morning take their toll on wildflower industry 
The wildflower industry in Western Australia be the late sector to be affect by the dry season . 
But it be not a lack of rain hamper production . 
Frosty morning be damage the bud and Rhonda Tonkin of Coomberdale say it be the bad she have see in 30 year . 
Ms Tonkin say she will probably lose some export market this year . 
`` If you do n't have enough product for the customer they tend to just cancel the container and go to India or somewhere else , '' she say . 
`` But we be fairly unique in Australia with our dried flower and the people be understand because they know that we have a problem . 

Company to streamline Australian operation 
Further rationalisation be occur across the international wine industry . 
One of the world 's large international beverage alcohol producer , Constellation Brands , say it will streamline it Australian operation . 
Constellation own the South Australian-based Hardys Wine Company and plan to buyout some grape supply and processing contract , and sell non-strategic asset . 

More innovation need to overcome wine glut : expert 
The marketing sector have be force to use it imagination to try to shift some of the billion litre of wine in storage across Australia . 
One of the late idea be a six pack of cleanskin wine in brightly colour bottle , which have stopper , so they can be reuse a water bottle . 
Professor of wine marketing Larry Lockshin , from the University of South Australia , say there need to be more innovation . 
`` Right now when you say to somebody 'wine ' , we think 750 millilitre in a glass bottle with a stopper of some sort , in Australia it might have a screw cap , other place might have a cork or a synthetic , '' he say . 
`` But that 's a very traditional package , it 's be around for hundred of year , so we have n't be all that creative . 
`` Look at how you buy milk , how you buy fruit juice , how you buy even tomato paste in the store . We use to buy it in can , now you can buy it in tube like toothpaste . 

AWB announce new chief 
The head of Orica Mining Services have be name the new manage director of wheat exporter AWB . 
Gordon Davis , 50 , will replace Andrew Lindberg , who quit at the height of the oil-for-food inquiry earlier this year . 
Mr Davis will be pay $ 875,000 a year , which be less than Mr Lindberg be receive . 
AWB chairman Brendan Stewart say Mr Davis 's role will be to stabilise the company and restore it credibility in the aftermath of the Cole inquiry . 
`` I 'm very conscious of the fact that Gordon should not be in any way , shape or form deem to have be involve in anything that 's go before u at AWB , '' he say . 
`` He be new to the organisation , he be a cleanskin in that sense and we look very much forward to him run the business a it go forward , and essentially the board , and myself , will be deal with any issue that come out of the Cole inquiry . '' 
Mr Davis will start his role in mid-September . 
Meanwhile the Grains Council have write to federal politician look for a guarantee that wheat grower will not be lump with the cost of the Cole inquiry . 
AWB estimate the royal commission into alleged kickback to Iraq will cost the company between $ 18 million and $ 20 million . 
The council say current and future profit from wheat sale should not be use to meet the debt . 

Coalition MPs pressure Govt over fuel price 
The push be on to find a way to reduce fuel price with backbencher pressure the Federal Government to intervene . 
Coalition MPs will meet in Canberra on Monday to put forward idea to ease the fuel price pain , include more help for the ethanol and biofuels industry , excise cut and tax concession for rural and remote area . 
Federal Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane have previously be oppose to extend help to the biofuels sector , but now say it will be consider if it lead to cheaper fuel cost . 
`` The Federal Government be already provide some assistance to particularly the biofuels industry to get cheap fuel onto the market and we be disappoint to date that part of that assistance be not actually reach the motorist , so we 'll continue to look at option there , '' he say . 
`` I guess Monday 's partyroom offer u the opportunity to hear what the backbencher be suggest and to consider some further option . '' 
In the United States , the peak body for corn grower in the mid-west believe biofuel production have bring life back to die farm community . 
Almost 60 million tonne of grain be process each year in the United States to make biofuels . 
Bruce Stockman from the Minnesota Corngrowers Association say ethanol have deliver a big boost . 
`` Everyone of the community that build one of these ethanol plant have come back to life , '' he say . 
`` They be on the decline and they have vitality now . 
`` The dollar that the state give a an incentive for the first 15,000 gallon of production have pay the state back 16-fold . 

Farmers confidence fall 
Farmer confidence have fall due to low demand , rise cost and poor seasonal condition between April and June . 
The late agribusiness survey by the National Australia Bank say beef , dairy , wheat , sugar and cotton farmer be less positive about the future . 
There be more optimism though for the wool and wine industry . 
Analyst Skye Dixon say the good news be that recent rainfall have boost the price outlook for the next year . 
`` Over the last 12 month , 2005-06 we saw rural commodity price rise by around 4 per cent , '' Ms Dixon say . 
`` This be largely in line with a steep rise in beef and sugar price , '' she say . 

Mining company continue post profit 
Evidence of the resource boom continue to show-up on the financial market , with record profit post by Australian miner in the past 48 hour . 
The big result come from Rio Tinto , which have post a profit of just under $ 5 billion for the half year . 
Rio produce iron ore , coal , diamond , copper , alumina and uranium in mine operation around the country . 
London resource expert Kevin Tomlinson say the success of Australia 's resource sector , despite high labour and operational cost , have surprise world financial market . 

Significant diamond find prompt mine hope 
Diamond mining in South Australia 's Flinders Ranges be a step closer after the discovery of 30 diamond . 
Resources company Flinders Diamonds have be explore the region for the past five year , but this be it most significant find . 
Managing director Dr Kevin Wills say other result be yet to be study , but so far the news be good . 
`` Each of these sample we 're treat have get the chance of be an economic sample , '' he say . 
`` Soon a we get to that stage , then we 'll convert to do a feasibility study rather than an exploration program and that 's what we try to find . 

Falling wheat crop to blame for AWB share drop 
A Western Australian business analyst say AWB 's recent share price have be affect more by the fall wheat crop than it new manage director . 
The wheat exporter announce yesterday that Orica 's head of mine Gordon Davis will replace Andrew Lindberg next month . 
Shares in AWB slowly drop during this week 's trade , but gain two cent this morning to hover around $ 3.74 . 
Ashley Kelly from Bell Potter Securities say at this time of year the market sharply watch announcement about the grain pool . 
`` The last update we have on the grain pool be back on the 31st of July , which be n't very long ago and of course those estimate be lower , '' Mr Kelley say . 
`` If you 're a bet person , then you 'd probably bet there 's possibly another one to come . 

Analyst say wool market perform well 
Elders say the wool market have perform well against the rise Australian dollar in the first sale after a three-week recess . 
The eastern market indicator fell five cent to 741 cent a kilogram this week , with 47,000 bale of wool on offer in Sydney and Fremantle . 
In Western Australia the indicator fell by 11 cent to 716 cent a kilogram . 
Wool analyst David Fogg say it be surprising there be not a big fall , give the two cent rise in the Australian dollar . 
`` We really think , particularly at the fine end , that we be go to see at least 20 and perhaps 30 come off price , but what we saw in fact with the fine wool be 10 to 15 on the first day , '' Mr Fogg say . 

Nine arrest after orchard raid 
Fruit orchard in Victoria 's Goulburn Valley be search by police yesterday , result in the arrest of nine people on allegation of extortion , arson , drug offence and organise crime . 
Charges be expect to be lay today . 
Nine orchard be raid yesterday at the culmination of a 12-month undercover police investigation . 
Inspector Gerry Ryan say the case relate to standover tactic be use by some fruit grower . 

Assistance scheme extend for cyclone-affected grower 
The Federal Government will extend a scheme to help north Queensland farmer whose crop be wipe out by cyclone Larry earlier this year . 
Employers who qualify receive $ 200 per worker each week to help them keep staff and skill in the region during the tough recovery period . 
Growers be hop the scheme would run for 36 week but at this stage it will be limit to 26 . 
Denis Rigato 's banana and avocado farm be badly damage by the cyclone and he say any extra assistance be welcome . 
`` Any sort of help we get be much need - it 's go to help with our exist labour force , '' Mr Rigato say . 
`` Even though we 've cut back it allow u to keep them [ employee ] go on , you know more time down the track . 

Citrus grower ask for frost assistance 
Riverland citrus grower who have have crop decimate by frost have ask the Federal Government for exceptional circumstance assistance . 
More than 30 per cent of the region 's navel orange crop be ruin during a long spell of frosty weather , with temperature fall to minus seven degree . 
Peter Walker from the South Australian Citrus Industry Development Board say he have approach Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran with the proposal . 
'We effectively have say when we have one crop failure that be a significant and he say it have to be prolonged failure so we 're argue that point of view at the moment , '' Mr Walker say . 

Poppy grower ask to boost production 
Tasmanian poppy grower have be ask at the last minute if they can plant an extra 2,000 hectare of poppy . 
Pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline announce in April it would cut contract by 90 per cent because of a world oversupply , but it have now secure a long-term deal that will clear out it reserve stock . 
Spokesman Mike Doyle say the company 's relationship with grower may have be damage , but he hop they will come to the party . 
`` The timing 's unfortunate I admit , '' Mr Doyle say . 
`` We certainly would have like to have know at a different time of the year , but these sort of negotiation be very involved and complicated and we be in a position now at least to see if there 's ground out there available . '' 

Tomato grower set to profit under new quarantine deal 
Australian tomato grower export to New Zealand expect cost cut and increased profit under a new quarantine deal . 
The exist inspection regime have be relax under an agreement between Biosecurity Australia , the Quarantine Inspection Service and New Zealand authority . 
Exports across the Tasman be worth more than $ 5 million each year . 
Andrew Phillip from Bundaberg-based SP Exports say the new quarantine regulation take effect immediately . 

Federal Govt offer $ 1m to fight fox 
The Federal Government have offer more than a million dollar to fight fox in Tasmania , as long a the Tasmanian State Government reinstate fund to a fox task force . 

Leeuwin II change young life in NT 
Forty young people from across the Northern Territory now have a career on the high sea in mind after a week at sea . 
The group have be aboard Australia 's big sail training ship , the Leeuwin II . 
For 14-year-old Riley Vaughan of Wave Hill Station south-west of Katherine , it be the chance of a life-time . 
`` How hard it be to work a little sailing ship , I think I have it tie down , it 'd be pretty easy but it be n't good enough , '' Riley say . 
`` I reckon the coil , the knot be the hard , unfurl the sail , you have to climb up and and crawl out on the end of the sail and unroll it , but it be worth it . 
`` Everyone once in their life should have a ride on the Leeuwin . '' 

Vaile deny EU claim of bias 
The Federal Government have be accuse of bias by the European Union by favour the United States in negotiation for world farm trade reform . 
EU trade commissioner Peter Mandelson have also snub Australia 's invitation to attend trade talk in Cairns next month , call on the Government to stop criticise Europe 's farm policy . 
But Australian Trade Minister Mark Vaile have flatly deny any allegation of bias . 
`` Well we have always be very ambitious as far a market access on agriculture be concern and I reject the notion that we be bias towards the United States , '' he say . 
`` In fact we be the only country of the six in the G6 that put compromise proposal on all front , on market access , on cut to domestic support and on change as far a non agricultural market access be concern . 

Farmers want Govt rethink on fuel tax 
Farmers who be develop commercial biofuel plant be hop the Federal Government will rethink it policy on tax alternative fuel after a meeting of Coalition MPs this afternoon . 
Public concern over the high cost of petrol and diesel be expect to be a major issue at the gathering , although Prime Minister John Howard have rule out cut the federal fuel excise or subsidy for rural motorist . 
Stephen Hobbs from Kaniva in western Victoria say it be time the Government help the rural community to reduce it dependence on big oil company . 
`` I think it 's just a really disappointing position that the Federal Government have take with the whole renewable fuel industry , when you consider that the fossil industry have have 100 year to get it 's legislative framework in place , '' he say . 

Calls for former AWB lawyer to be cross-examined 
AWB 's former in-house lawyer Jim Cooper be likely to give evidence to the Federal Court tomorrow , a the Cole Inquiry seek access to 1,300 document that may be relevant to the oil-for-food investigation . 
Barristers for the Commonwealth have tell AWB they want to cross-examine Mr Cooper , who resign in April . 

South Australian wheat bound for Iraq 
Another consignment of wheat bound for Iraq will leave Port Giles in South Australia on Wednesday . 
Part of the 350,000 tonne Wheat Australia deal , it be the first wheat from South Australia to leave the port for Iraq in almost two year . 
ABB Limited 's Maggie Dowling say the 23,000 tonne shipment be big news for the state 's wheat industry . 

Poor season affect lupin number 
Western Australian lupin grower be worried that poor seasonal condition will cut this season 's production by two-thirds . 
Farmers need to grow enough lupin each year to fill long stand overseas contract , hold enough over to plant the following year and supply the domestic livestock industry . 
With lupin fetch $ 300 a tonne to meet strong fee demand in the west , Alan Meldrum from Pulse Australia fear there will now be a lack of seed to plant next season . 
`` It 's obviously a very ordinary season , there 's not much production go to be happen from lupin in 2006 and the big concern be the great northern area where a lot of lupin be produce on an annual basis , '' he say . 

Bid to increase cherry research , development industry fails 
Just one vote have defeat a bid by the cherry industry to increase it research and development industry . 
Ian Hay from Australian Cherry Growers say the levy rise would have help to open up export market in China and Taiwan , by fund a fruit fly program . 
He say the industry be now work on an alternative proposal to put to producer . 
`` It exist now at one cent per kilo , however the conference vote unanimously at executive level to go out in the ballot again , but this time at four cent per kilo , '' he say . 

Mundubberra mandarin head for China 
The first export shipment of citrus fruit to China have leave Australia . 
Previously fruit enter China through the so-called `` grey channel '' via Hong Kong . 
On Friday a container of honey murcott mandarin from Mundubberra in Queensland 's central Burnett region leave under China 's strict new export protocol . 
The shipment will reach Beijing towards the end of the month , mean fruit supplier Alan Jenkins have a nervous wait . 
`` We 've do everything , we hope , right at this end , '' he say . 
`` We 've be certify and inspect by AQIS , and we hope that 's in line when it get to China . 

$ 50m for aquaculture , seafood firm 
A Western Australian businessman have launch a $ 50 million buy-up of aquaculture farm in South Australia . 
Analysts say the creation of a major seafood company could lead to good price and major export deal for oyster grower . 
The company know a Aqafood have enter contract to buy several oyster farm on the Eyre Peninsula and an atlantic salmon and ocean trout farm operation in the south-east . 
Adelaide business broker Martin White say the venture could see more seafood be sell in untapped export market . 
`` It 's a progression the industry need to take , in as much a there be n't a corporatisation at all in a lot of the small aquaculture industry and I think to develop and grow the industry this be a positive approach , '' he say . 

Diggers and Dealers conference kick off in Kalgoorlie 
Fifteen hundred miner have travel from all over the globe to attend the annual Diggers and Dealers talkfest at Kalgoorlie in Western Australia . 
The gold mining town be pack to capacity with some of the world leader in the resource sector , with many delegate have to resort to camper van and caravan site for accommodation . 
However , talk of move the conference to a capital city be not be consider by chairman Brian Hurley . 
`` If it be in Perth or Melbourne or Sydney it would just be another conference , '' he say . 

Comalco port get $ 78m upgrade 
The mining boom have see record demand for aluminium , lead to record production of bauxite at Comalco 's Weipa mine on Cape York . 
After produce 16 million tonne last year , the company be on track to set a new record . To cope with grow demand , the company have spend $ 78 million upgrade it port . 
The main part of the upgrade be the installation of a second ship loader , which weigh 650 tonne . 
Weipa manager Rob Atkinson say it can fill giant ore ship in no time at all . 
`` The ship loader be basically a device which allow the bauxite from the stockpile to be directly load into a ship and then it allow the bauxite to be feed into the ship at a rate of about 6,500 tonne an hour , '' he say . 

Scientist call on SA farmer to collect rabbit liver 
A South Australian scientist be call on landholder across the country to collect the liver from dead rabbit find on their property . 
In October it will be 10 year since the calici virus be release in South Australia in an attempt to control rabbit number . 
Ron Sinclair from the state 's Department of Water , Land and Biodiversity say the liver will help researcher find out how the virus have evolve and whether it be still effective . 
`` It 's not a very nice thing to do , to chop open a rabbit and take out a bit of liver , but we only need a little piece , about maybe a thumbnail size , chuck in a bottle and throw into a freezer label and then call the local authority responsible for animal or plant control and let them know they have one , '' he say . 

Thousands turn out for bush sport event 
While more than 20,000 people be gather for the annual Darwin Cup today , around 2,000 roll up for the Hart Ranges bush sport in central Australia over the weekend . 
Rodeo , gymkhana , athletics and novelty event like the kangaroo tail toss and lizard racing keep guest entertain , but the big draw card be the amateur horse race . 
A young French woman who work in local Aboriginal community take out the prized event - the Stockman 's Bracelet , and the Stockman 's Cup . 
`` I think on the first race , I 'm not exactly sure but I be tell I have about four length before the second horse , and on the second one I be a bit closer to the other horse , I think about two or three length as well in front of them , '' winner Alienor le Gouvello du Timat say . 

Concerns over CSIRO , Genetic Solutions deal 
There be concern today that a new commercial relationship between Australia 's national science agency and a gene technology company could hurt long-term research project . 
CSIRO have sign an agreement with Brisbane-based Genetic Solutions to become a shareholder in the company in exchange for it research into cattle gene . 
Traditionally CSIRO get royalty and licensing fee for it work . 
Mick Keogh from the Australian Farm Institute be worry the deal may change CSIRO 's focus , so it be chase profit rather than undertake long-term research . 
`` The New Zealand experience suggest that try to have public research agency be very strongly focus on external earnings target just divert the whole thing , '' he say . 
`` Everything become short-term , the long-term blue sky project just get leave on the shelf and everything 's about chasing earnings for this year or next year . '' 

Aussies lose Iraqi wheat trade 
A delegation from AWB have travel to Iraq in an attempt to rebuild the company 's damaged reputation . 
Figures out of the US suggest it now have 72 per cent of the wheat trade with Iraq , once Australia 's big grain export destination . 
AWB chairman Brendan Stewart say the US be a major competitor and he can not set a deadline on win new wheat contract . 
He say the meeting be request by Iraqi authority . 
`` This be an initial re-engagement meeting and be really to talk about process , not to talk about tender and price and those sort of thing , '' he say . 
Meanwhile , a group of grain grower - mainly from Western Australia - be investigate possible legal action against AWB . 
The WA Pastoralists and Graziers Association say it be research whether there be irregularity with AWB 's incentive scheme . 
The group of grower be concern that $ 200 million could have be deduct from income that should have go to grower . 
The PGA 's Leon Bradley say a legal firm have agree to act on it behalf to investigate concern . 
`` Well our first concern be that the benchmark itself be internally determine by the AWB and we 're concern about it integrity , '' he say . 
`` Secondly , with some of the evidence emerge at the Cole commission , we believe some of the price that have be use to calculate their performance have be inflate . '' 
AWB believe the PGA have misunderstand AWB 's incentive scheme . 
The company say will try to resolve the issue with the PGA before it embark on legal action . 

Documents decision 
The Federal Court have tell lawyer for AWB and the Commonwealth to meet privately to cull the controversial list of 1,300 secret document . 
Proceedings have be adjourn until this afternoon so the two party can agree on a small and easy to manage list of communication between AWB and it lawyer . 

Beef price predict to stay high 
The outlook for the cattle industry remain bright , despite the lingering drought and the return of US beef export to North Asia . 
In it late projection , Meat and Livestock Australia say beef price should stay at their current high level because export and domestic consumption be set to rise . 
Chief market analyst Peter Weeks say producer be continue to pay top price for graze land , with production set for a record high next year . 
`` Rarely see such a buoyant period , you 've really have four or five year where the industry have be what you could describe a buoyant , '' he say . 
`` We 've have this time round , we 've get record price , we 've get near record production and we 're think by 2:30 we might even have record production . 

20,000 sheep up for sale online 
The sheep market be strong , with more than 20,000 sheep up for sale on the Internet in Queensland . 
That be three time the usual number . 
Richard Murray from Landmark at Longreach say most of the sheep offer on Auctions Plus come from property in western Queensland . 
He say grazier be capitalise on strong demand for young ewe from central New South Wales , although abattoir-ready sheep be dominate the market . 
`` With the processor sheep , usually from mid August the price tend to ease back a bit , so naturally people be try to get their sheep onto the market before then , '' he say . 
`` It also fit in with the shearing , most of the shearing be do and they 're sort of six to eight week off the board now , which be an ideal time to be sell the sheep . '' 

Wool grower reject diazinon alternative 
The peak body represent wool grower want to hold on to access to a common louse control chemical , despite health concern . 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority be recommend that diazinon no longer be use to dip or jet sheep . 
Wool Producers 's Greg Weller want the authority to consider protective equipment and new method for dipping , because some of the alternative create other problem . 

Claims grain company under perform 
There be claim today that Australia 's key grain company be under perform on the stock market . 
Analyst Paul Jensz from Austock say AWB , ABB and Graincorp be return between four and six cent for every dollar invest , compare to 10 to 15 cent for other investment . 
He say the poor performance can not be blame entirely on seasonal condition , and grower shareholder need to have more trust in external investor and prepare for life without the single desk for wheat export . 
`` We would attribute maybe a third of the problem to seasonal issue , '' he say . 
`` But we do think even with those issue there be at least 60 per cent , two-thirds of the problem really , attribute towards structural change in the industry and some problem within particular company . '' 

High temp hit US dairy farmer hard 
A summer heatwave in the United States could be good news for Australian dairy exporter . 
Temperatures above 35 degree have take a dramatic toll on dairy production in California , with many cow die . 
Dairy analyst Steve Spencer from FreshLogic say production on the west coast could drop by 20 per cent this month . 
`` California be the large dairy state and that have a major impact on the industry , '' he say . 
`` There have be a cut in production , which will tighten their internal market . 

Lack of feed cause sheep to suffer : RSPCA 
The RSPCA be crack down on farmer in WA , say sheep be suffer due to a lack of feed . 
Officers have visit more than 50 farm in the dry part of the state . 
Spokeswoman Emma-Jane Morcombe say the organisation want to help farmer to find enough feed so their livestock can get through the tough season . 
`` You can call the RSPCA because we will come in and , a I say , we 're give advice right now , '' she say . 

Murray River system need 'a lot of rain ' 
Water inflows to the Murray River system over the past five year have be the low on record and this year be shape up to be another tough one . 
With inflow since 2001 at just 40 per cent of the long-term average , Trevor Jacobs from River Murray Water say a lot of rain be need . 
`` The catchment be n't respond well yet to rainfall , '' he say . 

Stellar season boost machinery dealer confidence 
One of the best season in year in South Australia have machinery dealer confident of big sale at this year 's Eyre Peninsula Field Days . 
High fuel price and low commodity have not deter thousand from attend the big event on every farmer calendar in South Australia . 
The Eyre Peninsula Field Days play host to more than 650 site of large machinery and rural supply along the outskirt of the small town of Cleve , one-and-a-half hour north of Port Lincoln . 
The season in this part of the world have be treat well , with some say it be one of the best they have see . Others claim the stem rust could be the downfall of this year 's crop . 

Kalgoorlie lack gold treatment facility , conference tell 
Treatment mill in Kalgoorlie in Western Australia be work overtime to turn as much ore into gold bar to take advantage of record gold price . 
This week the Kalgoorlie region be host the Diggers and Dealers conference , attend by some of the world 's leader in the resource sector . 
Analyst Dr Sandra Close have tell the conference that local plant can not keep up with the amount of gold be dig up to ship overseas . 
`` One of the actual problem we be actually see - I guess , in a way , it be a good problem to have - and that be there be a lack of gold treatment facility in the Kalgoorlie area , ' she say . 

Divided view on wheat marketing 
Four hundred delegate meet at the Agriculture Australia conference and all eye and ear be on a panel session - look at the future of the wheat industry in the face of AWB inquiry . The key question be should grower retain the single desk , and if so , should they allow AWB to continue to manage it ? The Grains Council of Australia , which represent state-based grain body , say producer want to keep the system a it stand until the end of the Cole inquiry . But a pressure mount from the impend cost of the inquiry , the Grain Growers Association , which represent 17,000 producer on the Eastern seaboard , say there 's little choice but to change . So what option should grower go with ? On the one side , international trader who want to get a share in the market say grower have nothing to lose . On the other hand , AWB have staunchly defend the benefit of have a single marketer a the best way to maximise return to grower . 

Grain dispute settle out of court 
A legal dispute over grain warehouse by Creasy 's Grain Enterprises have be settle out of court . When Creasy 's collapse last year , the receiver Ferrier Hodgson cite a 1933 High Court to claim title to a significant tonnage of grain store under warehouse agreement . The Whillock family from the north-west , with financial and legal support from the Australian Farmers Fighting Fund , challenge that claim in the court . A settlement of $ 97,000 have now be reach , return the full market value of the grain to the Whillock family , plus a large portion of the legal cost . The NSW Farmers Association take up the fight for the Whillock family and the president , Jock Laurie , say although a legal precedent be not set it 's still a significant win for the family . Meanwhile , Jackie Whillock have mix feeling about the case . She 's glad that they 've receive the full value of the grain , but disappoint the 1933 ruling have n't be overturn . 

Live at the Agriculture Australia 2006 conference 
Matt O'Sullivan bring you National Rural News today live from the Agriculture Australia conference in Sydney . 
MATTHEW O'SULLIVAN : Hello , I 'm Matt O'Sullivan , bring you National Rural News today from the Agriculture Australia conference in Sydney , the peak gathering for the grain industry . 
As you 'd expect the future of the single desk for wheat export be a hot topic , and confusion seem to be the common theme . 
The future of GM crop be also be debate today and , of course , there 's plenty of speculation about whether we 'll actually get a decent grain harvest this season - a the ongoing dry drag on , many part of Australia desperately need follow up rain . 
But everybody seem to be talk about alternative fuel , with crude oil price hit new high this week . Delegates believe it 's time the Federal Government offer new incentive to make the switch to ethanol and biodiesel . 
DELEGATE : `` I think there be such an abundance of energy in Australia , you know , they 're not very worried about it . They might as well just sit on their arse and not worry about it . '' 
DELEGATE : `` We 're not get any result at all with the biofuel . The Government 's just not interested to mandate it , and this be not actually go to get off the ground until it 's actually mandate , so it 's really up to the Government . '' 
DELEGATE : `` This issue be now on the table , it 's here . And we ca n't afford to be sit in here in three year ' time not really know where we 'll be and not pick up on the advantage that be there right now . '' 
DELEGATE : `` I fully support the biofuel concept in industry . I disagree with the fact that they 'll be get an excise and I want a level playing field in term of acquisition of raw material . '' 
MOS : Certainly , there 's a feeling that the Government need to do more , and the grain industry need to do more as well to get on the front foot and make sure that grain grower have a big slice of this market for grain . There do seem to be a concern that Australia be a long way behind other country in tap into the ethanol and biodiesel market . One of the speaker here today be Terry Reinhart from Advance Trading in the US . Thanks for join u , can you give u an idea of the industry in the US ? 
TERRY REINHART : Today , it 's about a 4.2 billion gallon industry , which compare to five year ago when it be about a 1 billion gallon industry , and projection be that by 2010 it 'll be a 10 billion gallon industry . 
MOS : So do a country like Australia have a long way to go to try and catch up to that ? Can we catch up to that ? 
TR : The good news about ethanol be it 's a 3000-year-old process by which you take corn and distil it into ethanol , so it 's not real rocket science , and if you have the money it 's fairly quick to build . You can build a 100 million gallon plant in 15 to 16 month , so it 's not like it take 20 year to develop this thing . 
MOS : One of the big concern here be from end user of feed grain , that it 'll be much more expensive and it 'll be hard to get access to that grain . How be the corn go into ethanol in the US affect the market there ? 
TR : To date , there have n't be any effect on the end user , because corn be still relatively cheap . Today in the US we 're over supplied with corn , which be one of the motivator to develop ethanol a a demand for corn , but down the road , a we continue to increase their production , we 're go to have to price corn a fuel a oppose to price corn a food and the livestock producer be concern greatly in the US also . 
MOS : That , I think , be go to be a grow theme , be n't it , that you have more and more different type of grain go into produce fuel and into produce food , when that 's a big issue ? 
TR : Yeah , it 's a big issue , and you can kind of sum up the whole thing if you go back to , I think it be 1998 , one barrel of crude would buy 4.7 bushel of corn and today one barrel of crude would buy 30 bushel of corn , so the price relationship strongly favour corn a a fuel a oppose to be a food . 
MOS : In term of the US industry , here in Australia we 've get a lot of different plant set up in small operation . There 's no sort of overall structure . Is that go to tell against Australia in the long run ? 
TR : I do n't know . In the US , there 's not much structure at this point either . The early people in the ethanol industry be the Cargills and the ADMs of the world . They 've be make ethanol for quite some time , but all the new capacity or much of the new capacity be small start-up operation , group of farmer go together invest in ethanol plant and there 's not much organisation today to all the ethanol plant that be out there and time will tell . My guess be some of these plant be build in the right place and some of them be n't , and we 'll just have to see over time which one be build in the right place . 
MOS : I see a story quote Sir Richard Branson say he 's invest in ethanol plant in the US . Are they start to attract that big business investment ? 
TR : Yes . Early on , four or five year ago , capital be a problem and you just work and work and work to try and find enough money to build an ethanol plant . To put it in perspective , to build a 100 million gallon plant - which be the one they 're build now - it take about $ 170 million to build that plant . Whereas five or 10 year ago it be terribly difficult to raise that money , today you 're hear story of people raise that kind of money in 30 and 60 day period . 
MOS : So there 's reason for farmer get involve in this to have some hope that it will take-off ? 
TR : In the US , I 'd say it have take off , it really have . And the limit resource in the US right now be plant capacity . And if we build all the plant that be on the draw board today , the limit resource be soon go to become farmland , enough land to produce enough corn to fee the ethanol plant . 
MOS : Thanks for your time , Terry Reinhart from Advance Trading in the US . 
You 're listen to a special broadcast of National Rural News from the Agriculture Australia conference in Sydney . 
Of course , alternative fuel have n't be the only item on the agenda here - an entire session have be devote to the future of the single desk for wheat export in the aftermath of the oil-for-food Inquiry . 
Reporter Alice Plate sit in on the session - and Alice , what 's the feeling about the future of our wheat export system ? 
ALICE PLACE : Well the feeling have actually change a bit . In the past , many grower , I think , have try to separate the single desk issue , that be , AWB 's right to veto other exporter ' application to sell wheat overseas , from the ongoing oil-for-food inquiry . And yesterday , at the panel , many of the grower group admit that change be now inevitable . 
MOS : They 're unsure though about what sort of system they want for the future , be that right ? 
AP : That 's right . Looking at the single desk marketing system , it 's not simple , by anyone 's analysis of it . Breaking it down , you 've get on one side the trader , other major competitor - CBH , Graincorp , and the like - all try to get into that market , say that they can give grower good return . And AWB , on the other hand , be say that it can maximise return for grower and give them security . But the Grains Council of Australia , which represent state-based grower body , say that the majority of grower do n't want a change from what they 've get . They want AWB to stay there . They want the single desk . On the other hand , the Grain Growers Association , which be east coast grain grower , say grower do want to know more about their option , that they be really start to question the current system . 
MOS : So be they look for more leadership from the grain body ? 
AP : That 's right . We do have a grower stand up yesterday and say , `` Why be n't you put forward option and recommend those to u ? '' And we have see the Grains Council of Australia , they have do independent report , also they 've look at the Victorian Farmers Federation 's option for the single desk , but they 're say they 're unwilling to analyse and make those recommendation until the Cole inquiry wrap up in September . 
MOS : Thanks Alice . Speaking of the inquiry , AWB have tell the Federal Court today it will cut by a third the number of document it 's battle to keep away from the Cole inquiry . Lawyers for the wheat exporter have tell the court that nearly 400 document will be strike from the confidential list , leave 900 still to be contest . And that hearing be continue in Melbourne . 
Here at the conference , reporter Michael Condon have be in one of the GM session . What have be discuss ? 
MICHAEL CONDON : One of the contentious issue surround the grain industry always be genetically modify crop , particularly food crop . Today we 've hear a couple of distinct point of view express . We hear from the the director of scientific affair for Monsanto . He 's actually address the conference a we speak now . Bit of a coup for the conference . 
He 's come from the United States say that he know that farmer already support GM crop . He say they get good yield . They use few chemical . They have high initial seed cost , but those be easily recoup . He 's say thatHe 's say that farmer be in favour . He do concede , though , that there be a bit of a way to go to convince consumer about eat the food that 's make from g-m crop . Monsanto , of course , famously put their GM wheat on hold for the time be . He say there be no plan to change that . 
But Mr Glick say he 's get a strong feeling that consumer will soon be convince . They 'll come to the party , he say . They 'll realise that g-m crop can do all sort of thing . They can put in special oil to reduce heart disease . They can have certain complex carbohydrate to combat diabetes , and g-m food also have less exposure to chemical in the grow process . So he say he think they will be convince . 
MOS : What about the food company ? What do they think about that ? 
MC : At this stage , George Weston Foods general manager be here as well . He be ask that question . He say at this stage consumer be n't ready . They 'd prefer to see the segregation process remain . He be particularly relate to canola . Keep the oilseed separate that be GM . The other , that 's non-GM be use in food . But he say too that he think that eventually consumer would change their attitude , and it be up to industry and up to research to try and find way of promote health benefit in GM to consumer as well . 
MOS : Thanks Michael , reporter Michael Condon here . 

Cole inquiry set to resume public hearing 
The Cole inquiry into the oil-for-food scandal will resume public hearing in Sydney in less than two week after delay cause by a legal challenge to the release of document . 
Board member of wheat exporter AWB could be among those call to give evidence from August 22 , although witness detail have not be confirm . 

Irrigators fin for steal water 
Two irrigators in south-west New South Wales have be fin for steal water . 
The state 's Department of Natural Resources claim a farmer at Euston be find to have extract more water than he be entitle to , while an irrigator at Barham tamper with a meter on a water pump . 
Department spokesman Peter Wells say the breach be discover during routine monitoring and prompt follow-up investigation . 
`` In a drought it 's more important than ever that everyone stick to the rule because the river be very stress the other user be typically on low or nil irrigation requirement , '' he say . 

Wool grower plan ethical wool brand launch 
A group of wool grower be plan to launch an ethical wool brand to try to capitalise on consumer demand for environmentally and humanely grown product . 
The Australian Wool Growers Association say new branding and marketing innovation be need to help lift low wool price and stop the loss of grower from the industry . 
Director Will Crozier want to see all sector of the grow , processing and manufacturing chain benefit from the brand . 
`` Our broker have be talk to people in China and Italy , '' he say . 

Fruit and vegie campaign push gain momentum 
An international push to encourage more people to eat fruit and vegetable be gather momentum . 
Backed by the World Health Organisation , the campaign encourage people to eat two serf of fruit and five vegetable every day be run in 10 country to try to reduce disease and death rate . 
President of the International Fruit and Vegetable Alliance Ron Lemaire say increase consumption will help grower as well a save life . 
`` In WA we know that right now there be 97 per cent awareness of the 'two and five ' campaign , they have already increase the number of serving by one per day per person , we already see improved health within that community , we already see reduced health care cost , '' he say . 
`` The producer also benefit through increase sale . 

Wine blueprint to focus on new innovation 
New innovation dominate a new seven year blueprint for the Australian wine industry which be launch in Adelaide this morning . 
Compiled by the Australian Wine Research Institute , the plan look at what consumer want from their wine , how grower and winery can improve production and how to ease the grape glut . 
Managing director Sakkie Pretorius say it will help the industry to stay competitive . 

Rural commodity price index up 2.5pc 
Stronger global commodity price be help to offset rise interest rate and the high value of the Australia dollar . 
The Westpac-National Farmers Federation rural commodity price index for July be up 2.5 per cent on the same time last year . 
The jump be be attribute to solid demand and dry seasonal condition in the Northern Hemisphere . 
Meanwhile the cotton industry be predict price to jump to more than $ 400 a bale next year due to demand from China . 

Surveys to try and identify Timor Sea diamond field 
Oil company work in the Timor Sea have discover that there may be diamond on the Tiwi Islands . 
Oil and gas explorer have find evidence of kimberlite , the host rock of diamond , in the ocean floor west of Melville and Bathurst Islands . 
As a result , the Northern Territory 's Department of Mines will carry out aerial magnetic survey of the island to try to identify new diamond field . 
Richard Brescianini , director of the Northern Territory Geological Survey , dream of find a major deposit . 

Court dismiss farmer 's uranium concern 
A farmer at Esperance in Western Australia be fight to stop uranium exploration on her property . 
Yvonne Hallam take court action this week to try to stop the exploration application but her case be dismiss . 
She say she be worry about biosecurity problem from let people on to her land . 
`` I think we 've get the right to continue with the farming that we 've be do for probably 40 year , and people before u , and people after u without have to worry about who 's come and go , and opening , and shut gate , or maybe not shut gate and all that sort of thing , '' she say . 

More woman enter mining workforce 
The resource boom have lead to a more woman enter the mining workforce across Australia . 
More than 3,500 woman have start work on mine site over the past three year and now make up 18 per cent of the workforce . 
And Mitch Hooke from the Minerals Council say the trend will have to continue to make up for a severe shortage of worker . 
`` They be attract by pay , yes they be attract by the opportunity but they 've start to see that the macho image of the mining industry be not quite as stringent a it be , '' he say . 
`` Do n't forget woman make the best truck driver . 
`` I mean we 've get a couple of mine manager that be woman , we 've get an Indigenous female mining engineer . 

Bull sale 'solid ' 
It be a big day in Broome in northern Western Australia yesterday , with Ladies Day at the race and the annual bull sale . 
One hundred and thirty-six beast go under the hammer , with a Kimberley pastoralist pay the top price of $ 4,500 for a brahman bull . 
Tony Cooling from Landmark Broome say the sale be solid , without be outstanding . 
`` We have a very very good clearance , the average be slightly up on last year so both the vendor be smile and the purchaser all get the fair share of bull , '' he say . 

NSW producer 's cattle set record price at Ekka 
A New South Wales beef producer have have a very successful trip to the Ekka in Brisbane . 
After a 12 hour drive from Singleton , in the Hunter Valley , Greg Ball have score win in three of the four category of the lead steer competition at the annual agricultural show . 
And the auction of his win prime cattle , set a record price . 
`` Twenty-seven dollar a kilo for the champion steer - I think that 'd be the most money we 've ever receive for a steer at a competition and I think some people be claim it a an Australian record , I do n't know , '' he say . 

Tassie camembert take out world cheese award 
A Tasmanian camembert have beat the country that invent it at a world cheese show in the United States . 
The win sample from the National Foods ' cheese factory in Burnie be up against 100 entry from all over the world , include the best from France . 
Chuffed cheese maker Kurt Wyss say the Tasmanian Heritage Signature Camembert be unlike any other in the world . 
`` It really stand out compare to other camembert a the flavour be a more fuller , earthy and a really , really creamy texture , '' he say . 

Govt accuse of sit on oil review 
The Democrats have accuse the Federal Government of fail to force the major oil company to meet their biofuels target . 
The party believe the Government be sit on a review which reveal the oil company be less than halfway towards meet their target of sell 350 megalitres of biofuel by 2010 . 
Nationals Senator Ron Boswell also believe the oil retailer be not make a big enough effort to adopt alternative fuel . 
`` I know fairly closely that from the time the Prime Minister call the oil company in , the oil company promise the Government that they would sell 89 million litre this year , we 're now almost in September and I would expect they 've sell about 10 million litre , '' he say . 
`` Now that be not honour the commitment to the Government ... and they need to be bring to account . '' 
The Federal Government have defend the oil company , say they be on track to reach the target . 
Meanwhile the nation 's peak motoring body say fuel price could surge to a $ 1.80 a litre by the end of the year . 
Alan Evans from the Australian Automobile Association say there have be trouble in the Alaskan oil field , Nigeria and the Middle East which make u vulnerable to a price increase : 

Forrest defend decision to abstain on migration Bill 
Former National party chief whip John Forrest say his decision not to support the Federal Government 's controversial migration legislation be base on his personal experience of refugee ' contribution to rural Australia . 
Mr Forrest resign from the position yesterday after abstain from the vote on the plan to detain and process all asylum seeker offshore . 
The Victorian-based member for Mallee say he have support the visa case of asylum seeker work in horticulture and local abattoir and have visted others in detention . 
`` We have literally get thousand of refugee live amongst u , more particularly along the Murray Valley but they be spread right across the electorate , '' he say . 
`` When people meet these folk and listen to their story , their perception about them change . 

Biodiesel price cut unlikely 
The country 's big oil refiner say it will not be offer incentive for biodiesel to match it announcement to make ethanol cheap at the pump . 
Under a new program , Caltex and BP will offer ethanol-blended fuel at three cent per litre less than regular unleaded fuel . 
Caltex government affair manager Frank Topham say biodiesel be too expensive to cut price for motorist . 
`` Biodiesel be significantly more expensive than ethanol for u to purchase , for the producer to produce and therefore a three cent a litre discount will not be possible , '' he say . 
Caltex have also reject claim that it be not buy fuel from the county 's big biofuels producer . 

Govt lawyer seek access to secret AWB document 
Lawyers for the Federal Government be fight for access to a handful of secret AWB document which it claim involve possible fraud . 
In submission today , counsel for the Commonwealth , Ian Harrison SC , tell Justice Neil Young in the Federal Court , the select material must be release to the Cole inquiry , even if it be privilege because it indicate evidence of possible fraud . 
Mr Harrison say AWB inflate it wheat price to pay Tigris $ 8 million , with part of this money be use to pay $ 2 million in compensation to Iraq for iron filing contamination in wheat shipment . 
Mr Harrison say this be a clear breach of UN sanction and fraudulent . 

Third party to oversee NLIS audit 
The Federal Government will appoint an independent third party to oversee an audit of the National Livestock Identification System database to address cattle producer concern once and for all . 
The Australian Beef Association lobby group fear the audit would be conduct in-house , and not effectively address it claim that the electronic livestock tag system be not work effectively . 
But Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have release the term of reference for the 10 week audit and say he be just about to appoint a major accounting firm to run it . 
He say every major group will have a say . 
`` The Australian Beef Association will be contact and their concern will be completely and fully explore , '' he say . 

Wool grower urge to keep research levy 
Wool producer be be urge not to lodge a protest vote against maintain the 2 per cent levy which fund research , development and marketing by Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) . 
With plan afoot to merge AWI with Australian Wool Services ( AWS ) , some grower be worry their fund will be use to pay a $ 27 million debt owe by AWS in the United Kingdom . 
Chairman of WoolPoll 2006 John Keniry understand grower be hurt from the drought and low wool price , but say cut the levy will create new problem . 
`` Zero per cent mean that there be no levy income , '' he say . 
`` If there be no levy income from grower then there be also no contribution from the Federal Government and that mean there be no ongoing income for AWI . 
`` AWI would spend the reserve it have simply to finish off the contract that be currently in place and then turn out the light , which , from my personal view a a wool grower , would be a sad event if we just walk away from research altogether . '' 
The WoolPoll vote close on November 3 . 
The wool market remain steady this week , the eastern market indicator up just one cent to 742 cent per kilogram . 
The market remain unchanged in the west . 

New regulation restrict animal health work to vet 
Under propose new animal welfare regulation in New South Wales , a range of routine animal health procedure will be restrict to vet . 
From September 1 , vet will be responsible for dehorn cattle , and mulesing sheep over a year old , and castrate cattle , sheep and goat over six month of age . 
The new regulation also classify most equine dentistry a veterinary science , limit equine dentist to basic teeth cleaning and rasping . 
Master equine dentist and trainer Ian Wharton say the regulation will be devastate . 

Sunbeam wo n't renew currant contract 
Australia 's large dry fruit processor say it will not renew or issue new contract for currant . 
Murray Valley grower have receive fall return for the past six year , raise question about the industry 's viability . 
Under exist contract Sunbeam Foods will still have to accept 3,500 tonne of fruit this year , but spokesman Chris Ellis say the global market be oversupplied and it be hard for Australia to compete . 
`` I think we be hopeful that the Greek crop might be diminish this year or that some sort of political trading resolution would have come and the situation would have ease , '' he say . 
`` For those grower impact they 've get to find another opportunity . 

Wine expert predict grape glut 's end 
A leading wine authority say Australia 's grape glut will soon be over and it be nothing to worry about . 
Author of the Wine Atlas of Australia James Halliday say boom and bust cycle be a normal part of agriculture . 
He say like sugar , wine will revive . 
He have play down the fact that up to 100,000 tonne of grape be leave unpicked in the last Australian harvest . 
`` That 's still only 5 per cent of the total potential harvest , so it 's by no mean as dramatic a the headline would have you believe , '' he say . 

Aust firefighter help battle US blaze 
A team of 47 Australian and New Zealand firefighter have fly to the United States to help battle some of the bad summer wildfire in more than a decade . 
The crew be on a four-week deployment in the western part of the US , where more than 40 fire be burn . 
Jeff Pike from Victoria 's Department of Sustainability and Environment say Australian firefighter will have to work in unfamiliar condition . 
`` Most of their fuel be soft wood fuel system , pine spruce and fuel like that , '' he say . 
`` The elevation they operate at be a little high than here . 

Qld 's fine cattle on show at Ekka 
The who 's who of Queensland 's cattle industry be at one place today - at the Brisbane Ekka . 
The Ekka be play host to one of the nation 's most prestigious cattle competition . 
The cattle be bring good price at today 's auction . 
Numbers be down a little at the Ekka prime cattle competition this year , number of cattle that be , but there be certainly plenty of people . 
Between 200-300 have gather around to hear how much Queensland 's meat processor be prepared to pay for the cream of Queensland 's fat cattle . 
Already the grand champion pen of six limousin , exhibit by Eddie Nolan from southern Queensland , have make 250 cent per kilogram liveweight . 
Grand champion steer of the show , another limousin , make 305 cent a kilo . 

Noxious weed find to benefit salmon 
A Tasmanian scientific researcher be turn one of Australia 's most noxious weed into beneficial omega-3 oil . 
Matthew Miller have find that feed pattersons curse , or salvation jane , to salmon significantly increase their level of the healthy oil . 
Mr Miller begin use oil extract from the weed a fish food after identify the particular compound need to stimulate omega-3 production . 
`` Patterson 's curse have this really unique special oil and pattersons curse have the high level of this oil , '' he say . 

Snowy River to reap benefit of western water project 
A big water-saving project be be officially open in western New South Wales today , with benefit for the iconic Snowy River . 
The $ 28 million redevelopment of the Barren Box Swamp near Griffith will save 20 gigalites of water . 
It be one of the big project fund under the New South Wales , Victorian and Federal Governments program to boost flow in the Snowy . 
Murrumbidgee Irrigation chairman Dick Thompson say a natural wetland on the site be also be restore . 
`` We 've already see a lot of the bird life return , '' he say . 

Rural youth force to travel for abortion 
A new study have find teenager in country Australia be travel up to 100 kilometre to have abortion in the city , because of a lack of service . 
The report have be publish today in the Australian and New Zealand Journal of Public Health . 
Co-author Carolyn Nickson , from the University of Melbourne , say almost one in five teenager be leave their regional town to access termination service . 
`` Eighteen per cent of teenager have travel over 100 kilometre , 28 woman in our sample have travel from interstate , '' she say . 
`` Twenty of those be from New South Wales and 10 of those be from the Albury region . 

Cowra Abattoir in receivership 
The abattoir at the centre of a row over the Federal Government 's new industrial relation law have be place into receivership . 
Two hundred worker be lock out of the Cowra Abattoir in New South Wales this morning , and meat supply to local butcher shop be suspend . 
The plant hit the headline earlier this year when management sack 29 worker under the IR law , and offer to rehire them on different condition . 
Charlie Donzo , from the Meat Employees Union , say a new workplace agreement have be develop , and he be surprised and disappointed . 
`` This be absolutely devastate , not only for myself but for the worker at Cowra , '' he say . 
`` Given the problem we have have over the last three or four month , and the effort that the fellow have put into put in a new agreement in place to make the plant more efficient and that . 

Shipment fodder blame for livestock death 
The use of new fodder on four live sheep shipment last year be be blame for a slight rise in livestock death rate . 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) and Livecorp figure show small increase in mortality rate for sheep and cattle during 2005 , and a slight fall in goat death . 
Out of 4.2 million sheep export last year , 0.95 per cent die . 
MLA general manager Mike Hayward say that be largely due to the fodder , which be less dusty but contain less fibre and nutrient . 
`` It essentially lead to an increase in mortality because a more than normal number of the sheep fail to eat , '' he say . 
`` There be a high level of disease in the animal a a result of that lack of fibre . 
`` It be as simple a that . '' 

Single desk change 'would hit AWB share ' 
Investment banker JP Morgan say share in wheat exporter AWB could drop to $ 2.80 , if the company lose control of the single desk for wheat export . 
Shares fell last week to $ 3.36 , which be low than the company 's debut price on the Australian Stock Exchange . 
An analysis by the banker also show that AWB 's share value would hover around $ 4 a share if it hold onto the single desk but more competitor be allow to sell wheat overseas . 
Greg Canavan , a senior equity analyst from Fat Prophets , say that be not surprising give AWB 's experience in wheat sale . 
`` When you look at the whole structure of the market AWB , give it monopoly position , do have a very big market share , '' he say . 
`` If it do n't have to give that market share up then it would still be in competition with the other player come in . 

US wheat forecast continue to drop 
The US wheat production forecast continue to slide but there have be a sharp rise in grain price . 
The late US Agriculture Department wheat estimate be off another 5 million bushel from last month at 1.8 billion . 
But that be just a small decline compare with the 14 per cent drop so far from the last marketing year . 
USDA 's World Agricultural Outlook Board chairman Gerald Bange say the big story be a 20 cent price increase on tighten competitor production in Argentina , Canada and the EU . 
`` EU-25 , in particular , be down pretty sharply , '' he say . 
`` We can down 6.8 million ton on our estimate of their 06/07 crop and the reason for that be they be hit really hard by some real extreme heat in June and July . '' 

Farmers fear further chemical ban 
Farmers be worry the Federal Government will ban access to more chemical commonly use in agriculture , in response to last week 's terrorism arrest in the United Kingdom . 
Some say restriction on the ammonium nitrate fertiliser have make the chemical prohibitively expensive . 
The Victorian Farmers Federation say the future of another 84 fertiliser , herbicide and fumigant be be consider by the Government . 
Spokesman Geoff Kendall say because farmer already have to obtain training certificate for many of the chemical , the Government should not over-react . 
`` We understand it will be the farmer wo n't have access to these product , '' he say . 
`` Basically they 'll be ban from use them in the future so we 're very very concerned . 

World Bank urge seasonal work visa for islander 
The World Bank have back farmer ' call for unskilled Pacific Island worker to fill labour shortage in Australia . 
The Federal Government have previously reject any change to the visa scheme which allow skilled migrant into the country 
But the bank say the Government could introduce a pilot program , allow islander to spend part of the year work in seasonal labour job . 
Senior economist Manjula Luthria say the the islander need the work or some Pacific economy could collapse . 
`` Forty per cent of the population be youth and in less than 10 year from now , they 're go to want to be make the transition from work basically off the land to pay employment , '' he say . 
`` A small percentage be actually go to find it domestically . 

Supply increase slash macadamia price 
An increased world supply have cut the price of macadamia nut by almost half and investor be count the cost . 
Up to 20 per cent of macadamia farm have change hand in the past two year , due to strong demand and sustained industry growth . 
But Andrew Heap , from the Australian Macadamia Society , say increase fuel cost and mortgage repayment have now hit consumer demand . 
He say over-investment on some farm will create problem . 
`` Most of those investor have be in a financial position to pay more than the agricultural value say these farm be worth , '' he say . 

Cattle TB surveillance program nears end 
After more than 30 year , the tuberculosis surveillance program for cattle will wrap up at the end of this year . 
The nation-wide program have be monitor the health of cattle in northern Australia since 1970 . 
The chief veterinary officer in the Northern Territory , Brian Radunz , say it be seven year since tuberculosis be detect there , and he be 99.9 per cent certain it have be wipe out . 
`` Due to the nature of TB you can always have a infection hide out there but it 's very unlikely give the fact that for the last 10 or so year if we have find infection we have be remove all the animal that have be expose to that infect animal , '' he aid . 
`` So unless there 's some undetected infection around we should never detect it . 

Logging detrimental to possums ' sex life : study 
The result of a five-year study claim farm and logging be have an impact on the sex life of possum . 
The mountain brush tail possum of north-eastern Victoria have be in the spotlight , and find to only have one mate in area which have be clear . 
Professor Jenny Martin , from the University of Melbourne , say monogamy be rare in mammal , and it be occur because there be few tree for sleep and eating . 
`` But at the other site where there be heap and heap of large tree with hollow , huge amount of food tree and most importantly that those two type of tree be very close to one another , female could have extremely small home range while still get access to the same amount of resource in term of food and shelter , '' she say . 

Rain cheer Louth race goer 
Recent rain be a reason to celebrate at the 48th annual Louth race in western New South Wales over the weekend . 
After almost a decade of drought , the red dust have be replace by a blanket of green . 
About 4,000 people flock into Louth and committee president Tess Le Leviere say the rain make a difference . 
`` People start work about two month ago on the different job and they get together at the pub and talk about it and by the time it be the day there 's be a lot of excitement and people forget just for a little while their problem , '' she say . 
`` We 've be very lucky because we 've have three inch - nearly four - of rain over the last six week and everything 's very green . 

First independent sugar shipment leave Cairns 
The first shipment of sugar from two Queensland mill operate outside the industry 's single desk have leave Cairns bound for China . 
Queensland Sugar Limited 's monopoly on export sale have end under deregulation , with the Mossman and Mulgrave mill decide to join the trade . 
Worker Barry Donnelly be at the Cairns sugar terminal to watch the 24,000 tonne of sugar be load . 
`` This will take about 17 hour to load this ship - there be five hold on this ship and they will just about be fill to capacity , '' he say . 

Australian judge make mark on English show 
An Australian cattle breeder have make his mark in England , after be invite to judge at the prestigious Great Yorkshire Show . 
Rod Summers , who own Maranga Stud at Evandale in Tasmania , be the mandatory independent judge of the belt galloway breed . 
In true Australian style he manage to ruffle a few feather before prove he know his stuff about the British breed . 
`` A lady take me to task [ about ] why she be place fourth instead of third after I swap them , before I order the ribbon , '' he say . 
`` Anyway , then she explain to me how the beast I 'd place third she 'd sell last year and the beast I 'd place fourth be the one she 'd keep . 

Demand fuel lobster breed research 
Australian marine scientist be try to farm tropical lobster , in a bid to meet the insatiable appetite of the Chinese . 
China be prepared to pay $ 30 a kilogram and demand can not be meet from wild stock . 
Mike Hall , from the Australian Institute of Marine Science , say the big challenge to farm lobster be overcome the disease problem which kill young larva . 
`` If we can get these animal from egg through the larval phase and through the grow out phase to harvest in a very short time , or in a short time , you 're go to have a high profit margin than one that take extremely long , '' he say . 

Cannery win US export deal 
Australia 's last tuna cannery have secure a $ 40 million export deal with the United States . 

Growers urge to aid canker-hit farm 
Australian Citrus Growers want member to donate money to help colleague in central Queensland affect by the canker outbreak . 
More than half-a-million tree be destroy follow the detection of the disease near Emerald in July 2004 . 
The Queensland and Federal government be foot 80 per cent of the bill but industry need to contribute about $ 200,000 . 
President Mark Chown be hop other region will help out . 
`` People can contribute as much a they wish , '' he say . 
`` We understand time be very tough for all grower at the moment , however , these people have have their entire orchard remove . 
`` Looking out the back door there 's nothing , so we 're very concerned about that and this project be put forward and we 've be eager to be involve . '' 
And a the winter citrus season wrap up in the Riverland and Sunraysia , fruit export to China be look shaky . 
Growers have gain official access to the country but they be worried about a tough quarantine protocol to keep the pest , fuller 's rise weevil , out of China . 
The Federal Government have reject call to underwrite the initial fruit shipment . 
But Andrew Green , from SA 's Citrus Industry Development Board , have not give up hope . 

WA push for federal drought relief fund 
The West Australian Government will apply for exceptional circumstance ( EC ) relief for some of the state 's bad drought-affected region . 
It be in negotiation with the Federal Government to roll over an exist EC claim in the northern agricultural region but extend it far into the central wheatbelt . 
Dexter Davies , from the Dry Season Advisory Committee , say part of the state be the bad he have see anywhere in Australia . 
`` It 's the dry start in history , '' he say . 
`` In the northern area ... all chance be go . 
`` Mullewa , Morowa , through there , it simply have n't rain and that go right out to the coast to Northampton - up there they just simply have n't have a winter at all . 

Farmers welcome migration Bill 's collapse 
Farmers be among those who have welcome the Federal Government 's decision to abandon it proposal to detain and assess all asylum seeker offshore . 
Prime Minister John Howard have withdraw the legislation because the Government do not have the number to get it through the senate . 
Ian Skiller say 90 per cent of the asylum seeker he employ on his farm at Tooleybuc , in north-west Victoria , be farmer who lose their own property in the Afghan war . 
`` The thing that annoy me be that they have knowledge of horticulture and farming and it seem a waste that we 're not utilise those skill , '' he say . 
`` I think they 're an asset to the area . 

Govt to hear farmer ' chemical access concern 
The Federal Government say it will listen to farmer concern before decide whether to restrict access to more agricultural chemical in the wake of the late terrorism threat . 
There be currently a review of 84 herbicide , fungicide and fumigant . 
Farmers be worried that a new licensing system be consider by the Government will make the chemical too expensive . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say there need to be a balance between security concern and farm need . 
Ben Fargher , from the National Farmers Federation , be hopeful the Government can be persuade to keep exist training and certification program instead . 
`` We will sit down with government , we will explain how the current scheme work with government , '' he say . 
`` There be government involvement in this and government people I have speak to be aware of the industry scheme . 

BJD trace prove NLIS 's worth : vet 
The Queensland Government have reject criticism of the National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) , after use it for the first time to track six potentially diseased cattle across three state . 
The system , which aim to achieve whole-of-life traceability , have be accuse of be inaccurate and costly , and be now subject to an independent audit . 
But Queensland 's principal veterinary officer , Dr Rick Webster , say the system have be use to trace cattle from a herd diagnose with Bovine Johnes disease ( BJD ) , avoid a costly eradication program . 
`` Because of NLIS we be able to check the record and see that all six animal have all be slaughter and they have only spent time alive in feedlot , '' he say . 

Middle East unrest hit cattle export 
The conflict in the Middle East be affect some sector of the live export cattle trade . 
Israel be a consistent buyer of large bull from the Kimberley in far north Western Australia . 
But over the past month , inquiry have ease and price have drop 20 to 30 cent a kilogram . 
Elders livestock agent Kelvin Hansey say the instability between Israel and Lebanon have hurt the small bull market . 
`` I mean it 's a 30 per cent drop in the price already , and have the potential though to stop for several month , '' he say . 
`` They be big event , these international event . 

Abattoir 's closure hit lamb price 
Livestock price in New South Wales have react to the closure of the Cowra Abattoir , with lamb price fall $ 3 to $ 4 a head . 
An administrator be appoint and the abattoir 's operation be shut down yesterday . 
Management claim the meatworks have be lose between $ 30,000 and $ 50,000 a week . 
Chris Grove , from the New South Wales Sheep Meats Council , be concern that there be one less buyer in the market . 
`` What it will probably mean will be a downturn in competition , '' he say . 
`` One less buyer mean less competition but it be just to be hop that there be enough competition in the market . 
`` A big problem we be face in the industry , all the meat industry and the sheep industry , be the reduction in kill capacity . 
`` Of course this have be make worse by closure of Cowra Abattoir . 

Cattle feedlot to host ethanol plant 
International investment firm Babcock and Brown be plan to build a $ 120 million ethanol plant at a cattle feedlot in southern New South Wales . 
The propose facility at Rockdale Beef at Yanco will produce up to 150 million litre of ethanol a year , and the grain by-product fed to the cattle . 
Rockdale 's general manager Paul Trojah say the ethanol production will complement the feedlot 's plan for a biogas plant to generate electricity from cow manure . 
`` Rockdale Feedlock will be produce about five megawatt of energy a day from all of the waste stream , '' he say . 

Farmers question fuel package benefit 
The Federal Government have pump $ 1.5 billion into a plan to tackle high fuel price , but there be question over whether the farm or transport sector will benefit . 
Almost half of the package will cover the cost of convert and instal LPG tank . 
Grants of up to $ 2,000 for the conversion be available immediately . 
But it be not expect to benefit farmer because it only apply to private user , and most farmer use machinery run on diesel , which can not be convert to LPG . 
There be also concerns conversion will be delay because of a huge demand and limited resource . 
A three-year program to help service station adopt equipment to sell ethanol-blended fuel , have also be announce . 
But the biofuels industry would have prefer a mandate for ethanol-blended fuel and more pressure on oil company to buy ethanol . 
The Federal Government will also spend $ 123 million to encourage people to use wind and solar power over generator in remote community . 
There be $ 76 million to encourage more oil exploration . 

Fishing industry 
The fishing industry say the fuel package be of no assistance . 
Neil Green , from the Queensland Seafood Industry Association , say primary producer have be hop for excise cut to reduce fuel cost . 
`` I do n't think politician , in particular the Prime Minister , actually realise where the fishing industry be , '' he say . 
`` Financially we 're on a knife 's edge and fuel be our big cost . 

Fines for minor breach may exacerbate driver shortage problem 
Livestock transport operator be concern that new fatigue management measure propose by the National Transport Commission could force driver out of the industry . 
The commission 's proposal to improve driver fatigue suggest a demerit system for log book offence , the same system use for general traffic offence . 
Ross Fraser from Frasers Transport in Queensland say while road safety be paramount , the shortage of driver will get bad if they start be fin for minor breach . 
`` We 're really concern about it because we 're get driver who be at the moment be fin for 15 minute over in their log book - 15 minute over a driving period that may have happen three week ago , '' he say . 

ACCC recommendation threaten phone rental parity 
The cost of phone line rental in regional Australia could rise dramatically if the Federal Government accept new recommendation from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) . 
Telecommunications consultant Gavin Priestley say the ACCC have recommend a wholesale line rental of $ 7.00 a month for CBD customer , but $ 34 for major regional centre . 
He say that mean rental cost for line in small community could rise much high . 
`` What it signal be the average of the access price for telephone right across Australia be go to change and our bad fear potentially be go to be realise , '' he say . 
`` That be country people will not get parity and will pay more for access to their phone line . 
`` When the sale of Telstra be tout we be guarantee that we would get parity of price and future proofing of the service . This be certainly not parity . '' 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say it be concern and seek more detail from the Communications Minister . 

US grain grower anxious to control ethanol plant 
Australian investment in US ethanol plant be cause a stir among US grain grower , who be anxious to hold onto control of their new industry . 
Mid-west US producer say at a farm bill listen session they be concerned foreign investor that Wall Street might gain too much control of US ethanol production . 
National Farmers Union president Tom Buis say `` it 's be a 30-year struggle , basically by farmer to get this industry kick-started . And now that it 's arrive , they just do n't want to sit back and watch the control and all the profit go elsewhere '' . 

Sugar price drop 
World sugar price have fall below 13 US cent a pound , down from a high of more than 18 cent earlier this year . 
It be bad news for Australian grower , who be about halfway through the harvest and have be hop for a breakthrough season . 

Labor claim underdog status in Qld election 
Water and health be expect to dominate the Queensland state election , set for September 9 . 
It be 65 year since a Labor government win a fourth term in office in Queensland . 
But despite hold 60 of the 89 seat in State Parliament the party be claim underdog status , in part because it lose the last three by-election and at least 10 sit member , include a number of minister , be not contest this poll . 
The Liberal Party have a new and untested leader who have be in the job for less than a week and the Coalition need to win 22 seat to take office . 
The key issue be the water crisis in the south-east and the stress health system statewide . 
The Premier say his plan for a south-east water grid and a $ 9 billion injection into health over the come year will solve the problem . 

Farmers urge to lobby for weed bio-control program 
Scientists be call on farmer to lobby for more natural way to control weed . 
The Co-operative Research Centre for Weed Management say the use of bug and disease to control invasive plant over the past 100 year have provide $ 10 billion worth of environmental and agricultural protection . 
Despite criticism that natural control method be too slow and unreliable , Dr Rachel McFadyen say the new research suggest previous effort have prevent invasive plant from wreck the environment . 
`` What we 're say to farmer be if farmer have get a significant problem year after year then they should be ask their agriculture representative and their state government member , be there a bio-control program against this weed ? '' she say . 
`` And if there be , do it have enough funding to get it go and if there be n't why be there one ? 
`` Because it 's one of the best return on money that they can get . '' 
Meanwhile large tree crop company in Western Australia be open their gate to agist sheep from drought-stricken farm . 
Integrated Tree Cropping have 70 plantation in the state 's south-west and want to use sheep to control weed . 
Spokesman Andy Wright say it should help the company too by save thousand of dollar a year on pesticide . 
`` We would have to carry out management on those weed , '' he say . 
`` We 'd have to spray the weed within the plantation or we would have to slash round the outside of the plantation . 

Wool body launch national mulesing assurance program 
The wool industry 's peak body have launch a national mulesing assurance program to try to reassure wool processor that animal be be treat humanely . 
Australian Wool Innovation and Wool Producers will improve training for 1,200 mulesing contractor by the end of the year to minimise pain and suffering for animal . 
Under the practice of mulesing , skin be cut from the backside of lamb to reduce the risk of flystrike . 
Secretary of the program , Charlie De Fegely say the wool industry want to show it have ethical standard . 
`` I 've even hear of some contractor pay for their producer to do it simply because they want to have best practice and they do n't want to be part of hold the industry back , '' he say . 

Wool grower want to postpone wool levy vote 
The Australian Wool Growers Association will ask the Federal Government to delay an industry vote on the future of the wool levy . 
This year 's Woolpoll be ask grower to support an ongoing 2 per cent levy to fund research , development and marketing by Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) . 
But with AWI plan a merger with Australian Wool Services , the association 's Martin Oppenheimer say grower need more information about the new organisation before they can make a decision . 
`` At the moment in the current climate there 's no way that wool grower be go to be able to afford extra levy , '' he say . 
`` What they want to be able to do be to split their levy between research and marketing . 

Green light give to third poppy processor 
A third poppy processor have be give the green light by the Tasmanian Government . 
TPI Enterprises have be permit to manufacture and sell narcotic from a small trial plot , but manage director Jarrod Ritchie say it be a significant step . 
He be hop to lock in future order , despite a world oversupply of poppy-derived product . 
`` There be price pressure on morphine , I do n't think anyone 's denying that , '' he say . 
`` Countries like Turkey be sit on significant stockholds but we see our main focus a be thebaine and we 're very confident of get those market . 

Mystery virus wipe out fly fox 
The sky around the Northern Territory town of Katherine have be clearer over the past 10 month , due to a mystery virus that be wipe out large number of native 'little red ' fly fox . 
While the mammal be consider a pest to farmer and townsfolk , the scientific community be concern the ecological system will suffer from a 50 per cent reduction in fly fox number . 
Andrew Pickering from Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife say no one know what impact the fall in number will have . 
`` There 's possibly a roundworm and a virus , not know exactly what to pinpoint , '' he say . 
`` Flying fox be actually a huge ecological benefit to the bush around here a pollinaters and seed distributor and so the loss of those big mega colony that we typically have they can number up to hundred of thousand have disappear at least from the Katherine region . '' 
Meanwhile for the first time all effort to manage the fruit fly be be record in a national stocktake . 
It be look at surveillance , research and development , market access and trade , and quarantine inspection . 

Farmers hail success of tuna trial program 
Tuna farmer be hail the success of a trial program to catch fish all year round . 
To test growth and health level , 65 tuna have be hold in cage off Port Lincoln in South Australia for the past 17 month which be four time longer than usual . 
The fish be harvest yesterday and David Ellis from the Tuna Boat Owners Association say they be in excellent health . 
`` We 're go to get the weight and the length of the fish , to see 
how much they 've grow , '' he say . 
`` We 've also take product quality sample or flesh sample so we 're look at how long or how red it stay for in shelf life . 

ACCC recommendation threaten phone rental parity 
The cost of phone line rental in regional Australia could rise dramatically if the Federal Government accept new recommendation from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) . 
Telecommunications consultant Gavin Priestley say the ACCC have recommend a wholesale line rental of $ 7.00 a month for CBD customer , but $ 34 for major regional centre . 
He say that mean rental cost for line in small community could rise much high . 
`` What it signal be the average of the access price for telephone right across Australia be go to change and our bad fear potentially be go to be realise , '' he say . 
`` That be country people will not get parity and will pay more for access to their phone line . 
`` When the sale of Telstra be tout we be guarantee that we would get parity of price and future proofing of the service . This be certainly not parity . '' 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say it be concern and seek more detail from the Communications Minister . 
But chief executive Ben Fargher say he be confident rural line rental will remain capped , under what be say be an `` iron clad '' deal between the NFF and the Government . 

ACCC recommendation threaten phone rental parity 
The cost of phone line rental in regional Australia could rise dramatically if the Federal Government accept new recommendation from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) . 
Telecommunications consultant Gavin Priestley say the ACCC have recommend a wholesale line rental of $ 7.00 a month for CBD customer , but $ 34 for major regional centre . 
He say that mean rental cost for line in small community could rise much high . 
`` What it signal be the average of the access price for telephone right across Australia be go to change and our bad fear potentially be go to be realise , '' he say . 
`` That be country people will not get parity and will pay more for access to their phone line . 
`` When the sale of Telstra be tout we be guarantee that we would get parity of price and future proofing of the service . This be certainly not parity . '' 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say it be concern and seek more detail from the Communications Minister . 
But chief executive Ben Fargher say he be confident rural line rental will remain capped , under what be say be an `` iron clad '' deal between the NFF and the Government . 
The new national agreement to handle exotic pest and disease outbreak be be question , after a decision to withdraw financial support for Queensland 's attempt to control sugar cane smut . 
The fungal disease , sugar cane smut , be first discover in south-east Queensland just over two month ago and since then more than 50 property have be put under quarantine , disrupt harvest and put strict protocol on local grower . 
As a signatory to the new Emergency Plant Pest Response Deed under Plant Health Australia , canegrowers be anticipate federal and state government would pay 80 per cent of the $ 43 million emergency response plan . 
But the National Management Group ( NMG ) vote against the proposal , suggest the disease could not be eradicate or contain . 
Isis Canegrowers chairman Joe Russo say the decision have shock the cane grow community . 
`` It 's no different from when you 're tell you first have smut , you 're somewhat quite gutted to hear the response to what NMG have come down with , '' he say . 

Polybag price increase hurt producer 
The price of the woven polybags use to package seed , wool and fertiliser be set to rise due to soar crude oil price . 
The bag be make from a petroleum-based resin , which have increase in price and be become hard to source from Asia . 
Bob Adams , from Colquhouns Fremantle Bag company say producer can no longer absorb the cost , and be now look at other option . 
`` We 've see cost rise by as much a 30 to 35 per cent over the last eight to nine month to the point it 's slowly be pass onto the packer and the user of the bag , '' he say . 

Financial lifeline save Broken Hill YMCA 
The Broken Hill YMCA will open within three month after be throw a last minute lifeline . 
The building be go on the market because it be $ 50,000 short of fund but it have be give that amount by it govern body . 
A team of YMCA Australia staff will be in the city next week to meet with the board and develop a business plan and a long term management strategy . 
New staff will be recruit and president Dionne Devlin say it still need the ongoing support of the local community . 
`` We start straight away look at the capital work that need to be do down there and organise the people that want to help and get straight in and get thing do , '' she say . 

Rio Tinto plan Perth tyre retread facility 
More evidence of the impact of the resource boom have surface today a miner see a worldwide shortage drive the price of mining tyre up to $ 100,000 each . 
The huge cost have prompt Rio Tinto to invest in it own tyre retread facility in Perth , which will open later this year . 
Kevin McLeish , from the Rio-owned Argyle Diamonds , say the length they have have to go to show the magnitude of the problem . 
`` So here you have have a mining company get into the tyre business , to be able to keep itself open , '' he say . 

Future growth in agriculture depend on export : ABARE 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) say most of the future growth in Australian agriculture will depend on export . 
The peak commodity forecaster have release a report show agriculture 's contribution to gross domestic product ( GDP ) have fall from around 3.6 per cent in the early 1980s to 2.7 per cent in the year lead up to 2005 . 
That be mainly due to the growth in the service , mining and manufacturing sector . 
ABARE spokeswoman Lisa Elliston say while agriculture continue to expand , it need to focus on international market because the domestic market be so small . 
`` In particular that mean that we have to focus on thing like barrier to trade , so that we have tariff and import quota that continue to be an important issue , '' she say . 

Authorities mull beef export with Korea 
Two of Australia 's big beef exporter be meet with Korean importer on the Gold Coast this week , to discuss way Australia can sell more beef to the country . 
Korea be Australia 's third-largest beef market , take more than 100,000 tonne last year , but US export be set to resume after a two-year ban relate to mad cow disease . 
Meat and Livestock Australia regional manager for Korea , Glen Feist , say Korean supermarket want more Australian beef and positive news be expect as early a tomorrow . 
`` For the first time we 've actually get two of Australia 's major exporter , two of Korea 's major importer and Tesco , which be the number two retailer up there with 44 hypermarket , get into a room for three day together , '' he say . 

Tas apple producer seek new Japanese export protocol 
Tasmanian apple grower be pin their hope on a new export protocol to save their export market to Japan . 
The industry have spend eight year pioneer the trade , but despite year of research , the fumigation of fruit for codling moth have continue to cause significant internal fruit damage . 
Fruit exporter Ken Bell say the industry be not likely to resume the trade until a new protocol can be agree to . 
`` Generally , the industry feel a little bit despondent with the Japanese market because we 've work for year and year and it 's cost a lot of money a you say , a lot of heartache , '' he say . 

Call for community project for work-for-the-dole participant 
Community project be be seek for work-for-the-dole program in Broken Hill , Menindee and Wilcannia . 
Sureway Employment chief executive officer , Judy Galloway , say two project be already under way in Broken Hill but more be need . 
She say the project be for not for profit organisation and provide an opportunity for people to gain skill that could lead to part time or full time employment . 
Mrs Galloway say participant can not take the place of pay employee . 
`` So it have to be additional work which be something of a community benefit , '' she say . 

NSW irrigators consider class action over lose groundwater entitlement 
Irrigators in New South Wales be consider legal action despite the Federal Government sign off on a $ 110 million package to compensate them for a loss of groundwater entitlement . 
The package relate to major cut in bore water allocation in six river valley , but the irrigators say the financial assistance be far too little , too late . 
Dennis Moxey from the Lachlan Groundwater Working Group say he understand their concern , but doubt a class action would succeed . 
`` It 's make some people fairly irate about the whole process now and I 'm not sure we be go to be able to hold the irrigators to a negotiation process . They 're go to start take their own action , '' he say . 

Senate tell Govt to blame for 'environmental disaster ' in Culgoa 
A Senate inquiry into water have be tell that successive Queensland government have ignore the advice of expert scientist , to create what be possibly the 'worst environmental disaster in inland Australia ' on the Culgoa Balonne floodplain in northern New South Wales . 
NSW farmer Ed Fessey tell the Senate 's Rural and Regional Affairs Committee that over extraction of water in Queensland be destroy both the environment and the livelihood of those on the Culgoa floodplain . 
`` This be highlight by the flippant , nonchalant and at time dismissive attitude that successive Queensland Natural Resources to due process ; the complete ignorance of a very strong and detailed submission by the New South Wales Government in 2004 ; the very select use of Peter Cullen 's scientific report to endorse their plan , whilst ignore the clear warning that significant ecological problem will occur , '' he say . 

Grim outlook for SA grain harvest 
A warm and windy day in South Australia yesterday have not help what be look set to be a decent season for grain grower . 
The grain harvest will now be well below average this year , unless there be significant rain in the next two week . 
Peter Fulwood from Rural Solutions South Australia say the state be head for it dry winter on record . 
`` If we do n't get substantial rain in the next couple of week , we could be look at one of , if not the dry , winter on record and then we go into our spring weather where temperature can rapidly rise in those month and we can get drying wind , crop can come under extreme moisture stress , '' he say . 
`` Overall , the state crop certainly wo n't be anything above average unless we be to get a complete change in the weather . The estimate we would be look at would be below average . '' 
Unusual weather pattern in Australia and overseas be put new pressure on global grain price . 
Dry weather in Western Australia mean grain handler CBH will not be export lupin this year , to ensure stock feed supply into 2007 . 

Farmers urge to assess greenhouse gas emission 
Farmers be be warn to start assess their carbon emission , even though a new state-based carbon trading scheme do not include agriculture yet . 
States include Victoria and New South Wales have launch a plan to establish emission target and a trading scheme for electricity generator . 
Tracie Griffin from the Victorian Government 's Greenhouse in Agriculture Program say farmer be the second high greenhouse gas polluter . 

Claim Mustard seed could supply biodiesel industry 
The mustard seed could be the next oilseed to supply the grow biodiesel industry . 
In South Australiam trial of the crop will be expand , because it fare well in low rainfall region that can not support other oilseed crop like canola . 
Trent Potter from the South Australian Research and Development Institute be hopeful more farmer will soon be able to produce oilseed crop for the biodiesel industry . 

Women 's contribution to rural business in spotlight 
It be Regional Women in Business Week , and it founder say it be an important chance for country woman to promote themselves . 
Queensland author Jo Eady say businesswoman in rural and regional area have a significant impact on local employment and income , and say it be no wonder the week have take off around the country . 
`` There 's retail , there 's industrial , there 's manufacturing , there 's agriculture , and then there 's the miriad of service industry which take in you know your marketing and your promotion and your computer type activity or your technology type activity and we 're there , '' she say . 

Submissions seek on chemical spray drift 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority be call for submission on it plan to reduce chemical spray drift on farm . 
Producers , insurance company and other farm industry representative have their say on the proposal at a forum in Canberra yesterday . 
The authority 's David Loschke say the plan include national regulation for label and handle pesticide . 
`` There 's a range of approach on exist label , quite a bit of variability and that 's something we want to change , '' he say . 
`` We want to bring them all into a much more uniform sort of approach and an approach that the state with their power of enforcement can use effectively to control their us . '' 
Submissions be due on October 6 . 

Scientists map DNA sequence for bovine animal 
Scientists have finish a five-year project to build a genetic map of bovine animal , which be expect to lead to good cattle production , breeding and disease control . 
The $ 70 million project to map the DNA sequence be a joint effort between Australia , New Zealand , Canada and the United States . 
Dr Chris Prideaux from the CSIRO say it be now time to apply the science . 
`` Really this map will speed up the roll-out of thing like genetic marker , such trait a meat tenderness [ and ] for marbling , '' he say . 

Winemakers pay tribute to Len Evans 
One of the great name of the Australian wine industry have die at the age of 75 . 
Wine judge and writer Len Evans be credit with bring Australian wine to prominence on the world stage , by encourage a move away from fortified variety into other blend . 
In 1968 , Mr Evans found the Rothbury Estate in the Hunter Valley with Murray Tyrrell . 
Mr Tyrrell 's son , Bruce , say his father 's friend be instrumental in build Australia 's wine export industry . 
`` He be certainly a very important cog in what wheel , there 's no question or doubt about that , '' he say . 
`` Len be a large than life personality , and he be one of those people that no door be ever lock to , because if it be , he just open it and walk through it . 

Fed Govt to contribute to wetland restoration in NSW 
The Federal Government will help to fund work to restore two major wetland in New South Wales . 

Rural woman 's isolation a key topic in youth survey 
The isolation of woman have emerge a a big issue in a national survey of youth in rural Australia this week . 
Workshops be be hold in five state a part of the Year of the Outback , to identify key issue and find some answer . 
Coordinator Fiona Campbell-Maybury , say woman want some kind of network to help them get access to resource . 
`` They be not necessarily suggest that the resource be not there , what they 're suggest be that they 're not necessarily aware of them , '' she say . 

Wave Hill walk-off celebration under way 
It have be 40 year since the Wave Hill walk-off , a protest which lead to the Indigenous right movement in Australia . 
Celebrations have begin in the remote Northern Territory of Kalkaringi , 800km south-west of Darwin . 
An overwhelming mood of friendship and reconciliation bind more than 1,500 people gather by the Victoria River , the site where stockman Vincent Lingiari lead his people on strike in 1966 . 
Originally protest against the pay condition on nearby Wave Hill Station , the nine-year strike soon become a battle for land right . 
Among the crowd today be descendant of the original Gurindgi striker , pastoralists , politician and visitor from across the country . 
As part of the festival an agreement be be sign between the Northern Territory Cattlemen 's Association , the Northern Territory Government , the Land Councils and the Indigenous Land Corporation to boost Aboriginal participation in the pastoral industry . 

NZ stone fruit grower get WA access 
New Zealand stone fruit grower will be allow to sell their fruit into market in Western Australia , six year after apply for access . 
Biosecurity Australia have make the decision in a risk import analysis , as long a fruit be fumigate and inspect to keep pest out of WA . 
Peter Gubler from the WA Summerfruit Council say he be concern , but do not expect import to have a major impact , in a market where price be already low than in the eastern state . 
`` Money wise , the commodity like peach and nectarine , I do n't think they 'll benefit from that because of the low return that grower here in the state get anyway , '' he say . 

Apple , pear industry unveils competitiveness plan 
The apple and pear industry have launch an ambitious research program to make Australian orchard globally competitive . 
The million-dollar program , Future Orchards 2012 , be unveil in Hobart this morning . 
Years of rise production cost and low price have leave Australian apple and pear grower fight for survival . 
The industry have to reduce cost while increase the amount of fruit harvest per hectare , and Future Orchards 2012 should prove it can be do . 
The current yield be 20 tonne of fruit per hectare from an average of 640 tree . 
Under the plan tonnage would more than double and high density plant would almost triple the amount of tree . 
The intensive orcharding would also be capital intensive , cost up to $ 60,000 a hectare . 

Labor 's ethanol pledge get mixed response 
There have be a mixed response in Queensland to Labor 's election promise to make all petrol include 5 per cent ethanol . 
Premier Peter Beattie say the mandate would increase to 10 per cent after 2010 . 
The Premier say the 5 per cent mandate will increase the use of ethanol 20-fold , to over 200 million litre , in a year . 
The Opposition say it be their policy five year ago . 
Grain grower on the Darling Downs say it be good news , a they have plan to build an ethanol plant at Dalby which will consume 400,000 tonne of sorghum and produce 160 million litre . 
The petrol company Caltex and BP be less supportive of a mandate and the RACQ say there be no evidence that ethanol blend be be sell at price below normal petrol . 

Red wine fail to meet Chinese standard 
China have reject more than 10,000 bottle of Australian red wine because it contain too much of the preservative sulphur dioxide . 
The 840 carton be reject by Chinese custom authority at the port of Shenzhen . 
It be understood the wine be bottle in 2003 by a winemaker from New South Wales , whose name be be keep under wrap . 
Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation chief executive Sam Tolley say the wine have be knock back because it do not meet Chinese standard . 
`` So when the sulphur be add to the wine , the blend be n't mixed thoroughly , so there 's some part of the wine that have this high sulphur content and the rest would have low , '' he say . 

Lamb industry thrive despite drought 
Although the prime lamb industry be in it fifth year of severe drought , the number of new season lamb come into the market be expect to rise another 3 per cent in the next 12 month . 
Meat and Livestock Australia say that be due to a 16 per cent jump in second-cross lamb , which be produce for meat . 
And there have be a dramatic fall in the price of cattle contract on the Sydney Futures Exchange . 

Farmers predict crop failure within week 
Farmers in Victoria 's Wimmera Mallee grain grow region say if it do not rain within two week their crop will fail . 
The effect of a lack of rain have be make worse by a run of frost and strong drying wind . 
Neil Simpson who have plant 1,500 hectare of wheat at Berriwillock in the southern Mallee say the early sown crop be already die and it be look bleak for the rest . 
`` Assuming that there be n't further rain , the late crop will also fail and they may not even produce a head in the circumstance so the outlook be certainly very dismal at this point and continue to deteriorate , '' he say . 

Nickel shortage cause panic 
The London Metal Exchange be force to intervene in the nickel market last night for the first time since the 1980s , to curb panic buying among metal trader . 
Analysts predict there be only enough nickel leave on the exchange to cover one day of world consumption . 
Supplies have shrink because of a strike at the world 's large nickel mine at Voisey 's Bay in Canada . 
In Australia , share in nickel mining company have skyrocket , a speculator predict the situation will not ease in the short term . 
Commonwealth Bank commodity strategist Tobin Gorey predict the market tightness will continue to force up price . 
`` In term of supply be tight yes it will [ force price up ] . Whether it be actually so tight that people ca n't complete transaction be another matter , that 's really what define the current circumstance , '' he say . 

Plan aim to tackle climate change impact on agriculture 
The federal , state and territory government have unveil a national action plan to tackle the affect of climate change on agriculture . 
It be design to help farmer adapt to a change climate , mitigate and prevent the impact of change , provide good research and development and increase awareness . 
While there be no funding or specific project yet , Ben Fargher from the National Farmers Federation say it be a significant step . 

Australia on track for driest August on record 
The National Climate Centre say we could be shape up for another major drought year if it do not rain soon . 
Australia be on track for it dry August on record , with an average of just 2.6 millimetre of rain so far this month , compare to the low recorded total of 7.1 millimetre . 
Meteorologist Blair Trewin say while south-west WA be in trouble , the eastern state be in a slightly good position because of rain last month . 
`` [ It ] certainly have n't be as dry a year like 1994 and 2002 generally speak , '' he aid . 
`` If we be to have a very dry September/October period then we might start get down into the kind of territory we saw in 1994 and 2002 , but our outlook be not currently indicate a particularly high chance of that happen . '' 

Growers fear Coles Myer takeover 
Fruit and vegetable grower be concern a foreign takeover of Coles Myer could squeeze them out of the market . 
A US-based consortium have launch a bid to buy the retail giant . 
Michael Badcock , from AUSVEG , fear a sale would leave producer at the whim of major international corporation . 
`` The big problem we 've get in Australia be that we have two major supermarket chain and that 's it , who control about 70 per cent of Australia 's market , '' he say . 
`` If one of these be take over by a big world player - and they 're quite ruthless in the way they cut cost and cut staff and everything else - if one do it the other one would do it . 
`` That would be a disaster for producer in Australia . '' 
The Federal Government can reject takeover that be deem not to be in the national interest . 
But Griffith University 's Tony Makin say even with lobbying , farmer be unlikely to stop a takeover bid . 

GE rice contaminate US crop 
The US agriculture secretary say US supply of long-grain rice be contaminate with a genetically-engineered variety which have not be approve for human use . 
Mike Johanns have announce that Bayer CropScience of Germany have tell the US Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) and the US Food and Drug Administration that the experimental rice pose no threat to human or the environment . 
But Mr Johanns do not know where the contaminated rice be find , how widespread it be , or how it enter the food supply . 
As for US customer , Mr Johanns say he be `` be provide information to my colleague '' . 
`` I 'm talk to them . I have indicate to them that we will provide whatever information they need , '' he say . 
Testing kit will be supply if require and USDA will investigate . 

Court to rule on wallaby cull 
Plans to cull wallaby on the two big island in Bass Strait be be challenge in the Federal Administrative Appeals Tribunal . 
The Wildlife Protection Association of Australia want to stop approve federal management plan , which allow farmer to shoot and export wallaby on King and Flinders island . 
President Pat O'Brien allege the plan allow inhumane killing of joeys , breach the national rifle code and misjudge the size of the wallaby population . 
He hop the case will reveal critical information . 
`` In the last appeal we have in New South Wales we find out that both Western Australia , South Australia and Queensland have overshoot their quota by about 15,000 animal , '' he say . 
`` But they would n't tell u unless we sort of have them in court and have them on oath . 

Land Rights Act change please fisherman 
Land right claim over some inter-tidal area on the Northern Territory coastline will be automatically terminate by change to the federal Land Rights Act . 
The move affect claim win more than three year ago through the High Court and have be label `` un-Australian '' by the Northern Land Council . 
But Iain Smith , from the Territory 's Seafood Council , have welcome the change . 
He say some claim have big ramification . 
`` If at some future stage a court decide that while water be over Aboriginal land the water and the animal in it belong to the relevant land trust - it be freehold title - then of course we would be totally exclude from the area unless we pay a fee , '' he say . 

Turnbull urge private water infrastructure investment 
There be a call today for more private investment to help solve the nation 's water shortage and fix ail infrastructure . 
The federal Parliamentary Secretary for Water , Malcolm Turnbull , have release a discussion paper which include a national set of guideline for work with the private sector . 
He admit there have be problem with partnership between the public and private arena , but say there be major opportunity . 
`` I do n't think many people would support , for example , privatise catchment management authority or privatise dam or the source of water , '' he say . 

Rival bid leave Sedimentary 's future uncertain 
The future of a gold miner with exploration interest at Foster and Walhalla in Victoria remain uncertain , with shareholder offer both a merger and a takeover bid . 
Sedimentary complain to the National Takeovers Panel last week that there be unacceptable circumstance around a takeover bid by Auselect . 
Now Sedimentary have announce a merger agreement with Premier Gold Mines . 
The takeover panel have decide it will not pursue Sedimentary 's complaint about the takeover bid . 

Ethanol plant construction under way 
Work on Australia 's first purpose-built ethanol plant be start in north-west Victoria today . 
Australian Ethanol plan to produce 100 million litre of ethanol annually at the Swan Hill plant , which be due to be complete late next year . 
Chief executive Peter Anderton say local farmer will supply it with 350,000 tonne of grain and corn . 
`` Corn would provide about a third of the grain require and then the remainder we would source off winter crop , wheat and barley , '' he say . 

116-turbine wind farm approve 
The Victorian Government have approve the construction of one of Australia 's big wind farm . 
The 116-turbine wind farm will be build at Mount Gellibrand in the state 's south-west . 
Despite political wrangling over the future of wind farm in Victoria , Colac Otway Shire Mayor Warren Riches say this project be likely to go ahead . 
`` I would think this be one project which will almost certainly go ahead no matter which party be in power after November , '' he say . 
`` It be in an open windswept area . 
`` It 's not something , for instance , that 's on the cliff of view overlook the Great Ocean Road or the ocean or anything like that . 

Rabbit infestation hit SA crop 
The bad infestation of rabbit in 10 year have cause ten of thousand of dollar of damage to crop and pasture on the low Eyre Peninsula in South Australia . 
Early rain and green grass be be blame for the high breeding number , and neither calicivirus nor myxomatosis be have an impact . 
Andrew Ware , from Lipson , say his farm have be hit hard . 
`` Just drive into our property at night-time , usually you would n't see any rabbit but at the moment we 're see five or six just at the entrance to our property , '' he say . 
`` I reckon we would have lose perhaps 25 acre of crop . 

Leaf rust let loose on feral blackberry 
The CSIRO be step up effort to stop the spread of feral blackberry use strain of the fungus , leaf rust . 
The scientific body want farmer to test the fungus on blackberry infestation over the next three year . 
Small-scale testing be do in 2004 , and the Federal Government have now boost funding to roll out the project across the country . 

Gates to fund agricultural research 
Agricultural research and development in develop country be set for a big boost from the world 's rich man . 
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation be extend a program which currently support research and development in the health sector . 
Agricultural economist Professor Phil Pardey , from the University of Minnesota , say the funding should make a big difference . 
`` They 've be look to broaden out in other area and so they 've make an in-principle decision to start ramp up investment into agricultural research , '' he say . 
`` The order of magnitude of sum of money that I 've hear be quite mind-boggling - in the hundred of million of dollar a year . 

Beef production pioneer Wright dy 
One of the pioneer of modern beef production in Australia have die . 
David Wright , 73 , head up a cattle dynasty base on Wallamumbi Station near Armidale in New South Wales . 
He be also responsible for develop the V2V breed of cattle , after cross Australia 's old hereford herd with new genetic stock . 
Mr Wright 's cattle empire fell apart after a long-running legal battle in the 1990s . 
The founder of the Co-operative Research Centre for Beef , Bernie Bindon , say Mr Wright be a pioneer of the scientific research which now underpin the industry . 
`` David Wright leave his imprint on many aspect of the Australian beef industry , '' he say . 

Horses among Wyndham race highlight 
Horses kick up dust and punter bet their luck over the weekend , at the 120th year of the Wyndham race in the Kimberley in far north Western Australia . 
More than 1,000 people from right across Australia flock to the port town 's mud flat . 
Gail Muir from Kununurra say some family connection with the historic meet make it a special day . 
`` My father-in-law flew from Darwin to Wyndham for the race 60 year ago in a Tiger Moth aircraft , an absolutely fantastic event with just a little bit of hessian all around the place , '' she say . 
`` Today I 'm here to relive the memory for him . 

Pilbara reflect on 40 year of export 
It be 40 year ago today since the first shipment of iron ore from Western Australia 's Pilbara region . 
In 1966 , the 52,00 tonne shipment leave the port of Dampier , on WA 's north-west coast , bound for Japan . 
David Smith , from Pilbara Iron , say Japan remain a major customer but there have be big change in the past four decade . 
`` It start off with about a hundred or so people in it first operation , '' he say . 
`` There 's about 5,000 employee that work in Pilbara Iron now , plus of course a lot of contractor who be important service provider that work and help support the company as well . 

Harvey Beef move to lot-fed cattle 
Western Australia 's big beef processor be move away from it traditional grass-fed cattle supply . 
EG Green and Sons be force into administration last year . 
The new owner be now try to make the abattoir more efficient by focus on lot-fed cattle . 
Harvey Beef 's chief executive Scott Henderson say it will be some time before the abattoir be run at full capacity . 
He say it be unlikely that stock price will match the eastern state in the short-term . 
`` The most important thing for u be to cut cost wherever we can and that 's what we be do to make sure that we have profitable business here , '' Mr Henderson say . 

Dingo preservation plan anger pastoralists 
South Australian authority want to protect the pure-bred dingo in the state 's far north , but pastoralists be not happy with the move . 
The Department of Water , Land and Biodiversity Conservation say some dingo population in the Simpson Desert should be protect to stop inter-breeding with wild dog . 
But Rodney Fullerton , from Mungeranie Station on the Birdsville Track , say it be unrealistic and impossible to get a balance between conservation and control . 
`` What happen out there in the desert , in the good season there 's a lot of dog out there and they breed up out there , '' he say . 
`` Once it get dry out there in the desert , they come in on these pastoral property . 
`` They come in and they play havoc with our calf and they kill them pretty quick because they 're hungry . 

Pet 's death renew hunt debate 
The debate over allow licensed hunter to cull feral pest in state park have flare again in New South Wales , after a domestic pet belong to a camper be shoot . 
Hunters have be give access to 152 state forest this year to help reduce pest problem . 
The owner of the dead kelpie , Ross Clissold , have camp in the Double Duke State Forest on the north coast for four year . 
He say he have no idea hunter be be use , and he be now reluctant to take his family to the area . 

WA drought package target farmer 
West Australian farmer be hop for rain this week and also have some financial relief in sight , with the State Government unveil a $ 5 million drought package . 
Farmers in the worst-hit northern agricultural area can apply for grant of up to $ 7,500 . 
The state Opposition want the help provide to the wider community . 

Bacchus Marsh irrigators offer extra water 
Irrigators in Victoria 's major lettuce grow region be be offer a 5 per cent water allocation to keep go , as long a they be prepared to pay for it . 
Growers at Bacchus Marsh , north-west of Melbourne , have face the prospect of no spring water supply . 
That prompt Australia 's big producer of coloured lettuce to move his operation to the state 's north . 
But Clinton Rodda , from South Rural Water , say the expense of transfer the water to irrigators will cost them extra . 
`` There be some capital cost and some of those we will recover through the pricing of the water , '' he say . 
`` The water 's available to our irrigators be Bacchus Marsh at an additional $ 410 a megalitre . 

Farmers prevent vegetation clearing inspection 
About 200 farmer have blockade a property near the New South Wales town of Cobar , in a sign of grow anger at the state 's native vegetation regulation . 
The farmer stop government official inspect the property yesterday , where legal clearing of invasive native scrub be under way . 
The Wilderness Society be believe to have complain about the scrub removal . 
Community spokesman Stuart Mosley say the farmer who own the property do not have anything to hide , but local producer have have enough . 
`` We 've get a family who be highly respect , who be hold up by the Catchment Management Authority a be model land manager , '' he say . 
`` We have get the radical green on the other side who be evangelically oppose to land clearing . 
`` We do n't believe that be appropriate for our part of the state . 
`` Yesterday we stand in the middle of 12.5 million hectare of invasive native scrub land that ABARE [ Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics ] have identify a be at risk because of inappropriate native vegetation regulation . 

Wheat virus find in commercial WA crop 
Wheat streak mosaic virus have be find in a commercial crop in Western Australia for the first time . 
Wheat seed be ban from enter WA last year to prevent the virus spread into the state , but it be find in April this year . 
Roger Jones , from the Department of Agriculture , believe the virus probably find it way west before the ban be impose . 
He say it have now be find on a farm at Merredin in the Wheatbelt . 
`` The danger from the disease be when you get early-sown crop , sow at a time of year when it 's still warm , '' he say . 
`` The mite can actually build up to very large number . 

Dairy industry fight fat perception 
The dairy industry say grow concern over Australia 's high obesity rate be turn the public off it product . 
Dairy Australia be fight back with a $ 4 million campaign to dispel the myth that dairy food be fatty . 
Spokesman Richard Lange say the industry need to claw back it market share , to stop people turn to dairy substitute . 
`` Milk be only 4 per cent fat , some consumer think that it 's up to 17 per cent and that 's a real myth that we need to bust in this campaign , '' he say . 

Oil price tip to boost wool market 
The big buyer of Australian wool say high oil price should help to drive up the wool market by another 10 per cent before Christmas . 
Growers saw an early jump in price in the first few month of this year but the market have remain fairly stagnant ever since . 
Soaring oil price have force up the cost of synthetic , lead to more demand for wool . 
Chris Kelly , from Chinese wool buyer Itochu , say the impact of the drought and demand from Chinese miller should also lift the market . 
`` The pipeline be very short , particularly in China and other wool consume country as well , '' he say . 

India take live export market share 
Rising fuel price and the fall value of Asian currency be begin to have an effect on the northern live cattle export industry . 
Figures from LiveCorp show the Indonesian market remain buoyant . 
Once-strong sale to the Philippines have fall 52 per cent in the past 12 month . 
Angus Adnam , from the Queensland Live Export Association , say compete live export from India be now a real force in Asian market . 
`` The Philippine market be a great market a couple of year ago of course , but we have see a big decline in the value of the Philippine peso , '' he say . 
`` Once again Indian beef continue to make huge inroad into that market , probably 180,000 , 210,000 tonne go into that market . 

AWB find more kickback document 
Thousands of document previously withhold by AWB 's inhouse lawyer have be discover by the oil-for-food Inquiry . 
The hearing into AWB 's $ 290 million in kickback to the former Iraqi Government have reopen in Sydney . 
Senior counsel assist Commissioner Terence Cole , John Agius QC , open proceeding by tell the inquiry that AWB have find yet more document . 
Mr Agius say 129 volume have be locate by AWB 's internal lawyer , Rosemary Peevey and Jessica Lyons . 
A further 69 volume have be find in connection with Jill Gillingham , who have just take the witness stand . 
Ms Gillingham say she report directly to Andrew Lindberg . 
She negotiate contract worth $ 750 million a year for storage , handle and movement of grain . 
Ms Gillingham also tell the inquiry she be the link between US public relation guru Peter Sandman and Mr Lindberg 's so-called apology document . 

Water use food label moot 
Food from the Murray Darling Basin could one day bear label which show it have be grow with the most efficient water use . 
The plan be one of a number of idea to be discuss at the Murray Darling Association 's annual meeting next week . 
General manager Ray Najar say it could help raise consumer awareness and good educate consumer . 
`` I think there 's a misunderstanding of how much value there be in use water for irrigation in the Murray Darling Basin , '' Mr Najar say . 
`` There 's obviously a certain select group of people that believe that irrigation should n't be occur in the basin . 

Water use produce label moot 
Products grow in the Murray Darling Basin under best-practice water use could be label a such , similar to the Heart Foundation 's tick or the 'Australian Grown ' label . 
It be just one of a number of idea to be put on the table at the the Murray Darling Association 's annual meeting at Barham next month . 
General manager Ray Najar say it could help raise consumer awareness of what be produce in the basin . 

Farm dam management under scrutiny 
Better regulation of farm dam in the upper area of the Murray Darling Basin catchment area be bring to the attention of those attend the 11th national water conference in Sydney yesterday . 
The Minister for the River Murray , Karlene Maywald , say while there be progress be make in provide the 500 gigalitres in environmental flow to the Living Murray project by 2009 , she say the state now need to take the next step in the process . 
She say all state need to work together to come up with co-ordinated approach to manage environmental and unregulated water flow and farm dam . 
Ms Maywald also say the State Government have buy 11 gigalitres of water from irrigators willing to sell in recent time . 
She be unable to disclose how much this have cost the Government . 

Water data management plan need : Matthews 
There be a need to improve the way water data be manage across the country . 
National Water Commission chairman Ken Matthews say information about where water be , how it be use and it quality need to be readily available . 
Representatives from all state and territory , science field and peak body industry body meet on Friday in Adelaide at the first water data summit to come to a national agreement . 

Horsemanship course improve youth ' job prospect 
A group of young men from a remote Aboriginal community in north Queensland 
have improve their job prospect and way of life by learn how to handle horse . 
Twenty horse be seize from Palm Island three year ago in what the RSPCA say be one of the bad case of animal cruelty it have see . 
State Government intervention have provide more infrastructure and equipment to deal with the hundred of wild and domesticated horse on the island . 
Ten young men , include Thomas Chookie , have be take part in a horsemanship course near Ingham . 
`` I learn so much ... I I build a great self-confidence too and self-esteem , like how to be one with something that you ca n't really tame , '' he say . 

Rural resident oppose daylight save extension 
Calls to extend daylight save by more than a month in south-eastern Australia have not go down well with in some part of the country . 
Victorian Premier Steve Bracks want to bring his state into line with New South Wales , Tasmania and South Australia . 
But Sharnie Mahar , who live at Penong in far western South Australia , say daylight save cause enough havoc with family life already . 
`` I do n't agree with it at all actually , '' she say . 
`` Daylight saving be plenty long enough a it be . 
`` Because I live in such an isolated area , I find the day reasonably long a they be . 

WA truffle may fill French gap 
Truffles from Western Australia could soon be fill seasonal shortage of the delicacy in France . 
A group of French chef and a prominent truffle trader be in WA , look at the local industry . 
Chef Alain Fabregues believe Australian truffle should be send to France during the northern summer , when European truffle be not available . 
`` This be a great move - you give u a great opportunity , '' he say . 
`` It 's complementary , it do not compete against each other . 

Grain delivery rule anger WA farmer 
Some West Australian farmer be angry at new rule impose by grain handler CBH for deliver grain this season . 
Under the change , farmer who overload grain truck will have to forfeit the extra grain , with the proceeds go to local shire for road maintenance . 
Farmers like Peter Boyle from York be upset because the scheme could involve extra cost . 
`` What they 're aim to achieve be certainly a lot good than what Main Roads be try to do and it 's good than what 's in the eastern state , '' he say . 
`` I commend them for that . 
`` But some of the other hidden charge that they 're bring forth , that really be a bit of a stab in the back . '' 

Oil exploration cause diver shortage 
Increasing exploration for offshore oil reserve be cause a shortage of diver in the aquaculture industry . 
Divers be be offer more than $ 300,000 a year for exploration work , compare $ 70,000 for work in the tuna and abalone sector . 
Martin Phillips , from South Australian Underwater Training , say oil exploration have not be a traditional job market for diver . 
`` Offshore job have be extremely difficult to get , you really have to know someone in that industry to get a job offshore , '' he say . 

Domestic violence support 'hard to access ' for migrant 
A Victorian report have find migrant woman in country area be have trouble get help to deal with domestic violence . 
Across Australia one in every three to four family be affect by domestic violence . 
The report say country woman in particularly find it difficult to access support service . 
Diana Orlando , from the Immigrant Women 's Domestic Violence Service , say it be even hard for woman from non-English speaking background . 
`` It 's language barrier but it 's also trust , '' she say . 
`` What the community say in the report be be it a service that 's go to understand me , understand my culture , be I just go to be pressure to leave and break the family ? 
`` I ca n't leave because I 'm on a farm or I ca n't leave because I 'm be threaten with deportation . 

Drivers knowingly take risk : survey 
A survey of country driver have find high rate of complacency when it come to drink driving , fatigue and speeding . 
Insurance group AAMI have interview 2,500 motorist about their attitude to road safety . 
It find 40 per cent of people survey have probably drive while over the legal alcohol limit . 
A third have momentarily fall asleep at the wheel , while most have exceed the speed limit . 
Professor Craig Veitch , from James Cook University , be involve in a five-year investigation into regional road safety . 
He say the figure show education campaign be not work . 
`` A lot of people we 've speak with have remember road safety message that have n't be use in 10 year - that 's the 'bloody idiot ' campaign , that 's be use , '' he say . 

AWB attempt to retract Cole inquiry evidence 
Tempers have flare at the oil for food inquiry , after wheat exporter AWB try to keep secret a document that be enter into evidence six month ago . 
Exhibit 412 , which name Foreign Affairs Minister Alexander Downer , be the subject of a bitter exchange between Commissioner Terence Cole and AWB 's lawyer this morning . 
The exhibit relate to Iraq 's claim for compensation over wheat shipment it say be contaminate with iron filing . 
In the February 2003 memo , AWB executive Peter Geary describe the matter a sensitive and political and that AWB would need to inform Mr Downer . 
AWB 's lawyer leap to their foot , demand the document be remove . 
They say it be confidential and part of AWB 's Federal Court challenge . 
After a heated altercation , Commissioner Cole take an immediate adjournment . 

Useful rain fall on WA farm 
Farmers in Western Australia have receive the most useful fall of the winter season over the past 24 hour . 
South-west and southern coastal area have receive the heavy fall of between 50 and 70 millimetre . 

Warm day cause grape vine to bud 
The warm than usual day and cold night across Australia 's south have cause grape vine to burst into life well ahead of normal spring budding . 
Chardonnay vine have begin wake from their winter dormancy in South Australia 's Coonawarra and Padthaway region . 
Viticulturist Dan Newson say that could result in an early vintage . 
`` The cold be play a part , '' he say . 
`` What 's happen be due to have dry soil and cooler temperature overnight , the vine have go into a deep dormancy than what they normally will . 

Cereal crop deteriorate amid dry weather 
Cereal and canola crop in New South Wales have start to deteriorate . 
Producers be pin their hope on a weak rain system due to come through tomorrow , but warm than normal daytime temperature be stress crop . 
Callers to ABC Central West this morning say 50 to 100 millimetre be need within the next two week . 
`` Pretty much on a knife edge at the moment . Our crop be n't sow until about mi- June . They be look for rain , '' one caller say . 
`` It 's very marginal here at the moment . Everything be just struggle . The pasture be go back into the ground and the crop be just sit there , '' another say . 
`` Like the rest of the region , thing will begin to deteriorate I should imagine , '' a listener say . 

Dry condition boost cattle , sheep sale 
A grow number of farmer in the south-eastern state be sell off cattle due to dry seasonal condition and low water allocation . 
Saleyard price drop sharply yesterday a lower-quality dairy and beef cattle flood into the market 
Aaron Iori , from the National Livestock Reporting Service , say stock figure be dramatically high than last year . 
`` If you look at south-east South Australia for instance , number there be about 80 per cent high than this time last year , '' he say . 
`` That 's specifically because the area north of Naracoote be in a severe situation and number be just continue to come on to the market . '' 
More sheep be also appear in the saleyards because the dry winter have leave many farm without feed . 
Extra sale be be run in some place to cater for the high number . 
Gary Tapscott , from Elders , say the dry condition be affect everyone . 

Spring forecast to be hot , dry 
The National Climate Centre say Australia can expect hotter and drier condition this spring . 
The late three-month outlook have a 60 per cent chance of higher-than-average temperature across most of the tropic , a large part of south-eastern Australia and south-west West Australia . 
There be also a high risk of an El Nino weather pattern . 
Senior meteorologist Grant Beard say high temperature in the Pacific and Indian Oceans also mean there be less chance of average rainfall . 
`` Fairly large area of north-east to northern part of Australia stand an increased chance of have a poor start to their wet season , '' he say . 
`` There 's a bit area of the Northern Territory and a fair bit of Queensland that have a less than 40 per cent chance of receive their median rainfall from September to November . 

MLA apologise for hack tag poll 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) have be force to apologise , after two staff member hack into an Internet poll on the National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) . 
The Rural Press poll ask reader to rate the performance of the system to trace animal from birth to death . 
Early poll result show more than 60 per cent of voter describe NLIS a poor or terrible . 
But a day later , after tamper by MLA staff , the poll show 70 per cent believe the system be good or excellent . 
MLA 's manage director , David Palmer , say the staff involve have not be sack . 
He concede the organisation 's credibility be on the line . 
`` This be a very damaging moment . I take it very seriously , the company take it very seriously , the board equally be most alarmed and shock by it , '' he say . 
`` We will take all step and measure to set u down a track to try to win back that integrity and win back that credibility that we just so desperately need from industry . '' 
A long-time critic of NLIS , the Australian Beef Association , say the incident do nothing to boost the credibility of electronic identification . 
It say the incident back it claim the system can be easily corrupt . 
Chairwoman Linda Hewitt say Mr Palmer should immediately sack the MLA staff involve . 
`` Possibly the man do not know what be go on , possibly he be very embarrassed , but he certainly need to take very strong action straight away , '' she say . 
`` We will be keep an eye on the situation . 
`` We will be put press release out about how we expect the whole situation to be handle and we will be question the integrity of the MLA 's checking of itself . '' 

Bishop make no promise on education report 
The federal Education Minister , Julie Bishop , have officially launch a report about the drought 's impact on education , but have fail to give any commitment to implement it recommendation . 
The study have call for more financial assistance to help drought-affected family educate their child . 
Rural and remote family in New South Wales , Queensland and Victoria be interview a part of the study by Charles Sturt University . 
It pay particular attention to tertiary education and find that rural student be disadvantage . 
It recommend that those who have to move away from home to attend university should be automatically eligible for youth allowance . 
At the launch , Ms Bishop acknowledge the challenge of rural education , say the Government be continually review it assistance program . 

Satellite brings broadband to remote area 
The Federal Government have announce a deal to give remote community full access to broadband Internet service . 
Rural user will have access to the world 's first purpose-built communication satellite , which have be launch by a company base in Thailand . 
The Government will also offer subsidised service a part of an $ 876 million package link to the Broadband Connect program , to keep cost similar to those of city service . 
IT consultant Peter Saville say the satellite will give also remote area cheaper phone call and video conferencing . 
`` What this satellite system be go to do be provide a service to those people who ca n't get any form of broadband or high speed Internet access and open up a few other area like voiceover IP , '' he say . 

'Negative propaganda ' behind forestry skill shortage 
A Federal Government audit have accuse the Greens and some mainstream medium of peddle negative propaganda , which be exacerbate skill shortage in the timber industry . 
The report detail future construction project worth $ 4 billion in Tasmania , Victoria and South Australia . 
But it say industry will struggle to find the 4,500 people need to build them . 
Forestry Minister Eric Abetz say while the audit be complete by government authority , it be independent . 
Senator Abetz say it back up his own anecdotal evidence show young people be be turn off . 
`` You talk to the forestry school around Australia and they will tell you that student feel it be difficult to enrol in forestry whilst they would like to , because of the pressure from green group , '' he say . 

EU ban contaminate rice import 
The European Union ( EU ) have stop import of US rice , which have be find to contain an unapproved genetically-engineered variety . 
American authority will have to prove rice shipment be free of GM trace , before they will be allow in . 
The EU 's emergency measure follow discovery of tract of experimental GE rice in US commercial supply . 
Germany 's Bayer CropScience develop `` LL Rice 601 '' . 
US Rice Federation spokesman David Coia claim the decision be preliminary . 
`` We 're wait for the final decision by the state committee , '' he say . 
`` I think it 's important to recognise that the US Food and Drug Administration have declare that the long grain rice variety in question be safe . '' 
But the EU say it ban will last at least six month . 

BHP tip to break own profit record 
After post a record profit of $ 13 billion , analyst say BHP Billiton could be set for an even big result next year . 
Hartley 's resource expert Rob Brierly say increase demand from China and India should drive next year 's profit to more than $ 15 billion . 
He predict the price of nickel , copper , iron ore and oil will continue to rise , put BHP in line to continue to break record in Australian corporate history . 

McGuigan confident of profit recovery 
Australia 's third-largest winery have record an $ 11.5 million loss . 
McGuigan Simeon say for the first time shareholder will not be pay a dividend . 
Growers have be angry with the company since it decide to suspend or not renew contract for more than 100 Sunraysia and Riverland farmer last year . 
Managing director Dane Hudson say the result be disappointing but he remain confident the company can recover . 
`` Our cashflow have be solid and that mean our business will be around for some time , '' he say . 
`` We need to just grow our way out of it . 

Ethanol producer welcome mandate plan 
Australia 's large ethanol producer be urge the Federal Government to follow New South Wales ' decision to mandate the use of 10 per cent ethanol-blended petrol by 2011 . 
Premier Morris Iemma say the transition could lower fuel price , reduce greenhouse gas and provide job in regional area . 
Manildra Group director Caroline Honan say the Federal Government must follow . 
`` As part of the ethanol industry we would like to congratulate the Premier on the announcement , '' he say . 
`` It be certainly a very positive for the ethanol industry . 
`` I think certainly the Premier have pave the way in term of state legislation and we would like to see the Federal Government also move towards a mandate as well . 

Canada find new BSE case 
Canadian authority have report another case of mad cow disease in a beef animal in Alberta . 
An investigation be under way to find out which herd the animal come from . 

Northern property buy-up a 'long-term investment ' 
Two Queensland family be rumour to have spend around $ 300 million on a major land and livestock purchase in Australia 's north . 
Graziers Peter Hughes and Bill Scott and their family have buy eight property and 115,000 cattle from the Colonial Agricultural Fund . 
While he will not say how much they pay , Mr Hughes say the 2 million hectare portfolio be a long-term investment . 
`` Whether it 's good timing or not I be not sure but these opportunity do n't arise very often , and when they arise you have get to grab them with both hand , '' he say . 
`` But we 're in it for the long run . It 's not a short-term thing for u . 

Alliance to see cattle on Aboriginal land 
A new alliance between land council and the Northern Territory Cattlemen 's Association should see more cattle re-introduced to ungrazed Aboriginal land . 
Properties be be lease in exchange for improved road and fence , as well a employment and training . 
A deal have just be sign to move 2,5000 head of cattle from Deep Well Station on to Haasts Bluff , west of Alice Springs . 
Pastoralist Billy Hayes think there will be benefit for everyone involve . 
`` They 'll be as pleased to see cattle out there a we will be , '' he say . 
`` There 'll be job outcome , you know , for the young lad in the community . 

Semi-black opal find excite miner 
Miners in South Australia 's remote outback be excite about a new find of rare , semi-black opal near Coober Pedy . 
The gem have be unearth in a field call Alan 's Ridge , about 60 kilometre south of the town . 
Opal miner John Dunstan say black opal be highly valuable , and can fetch up to $ 150,000 an ounce . 
He say he could have make the find himself , if only he have keep work in the field a little bit longer . 
`` I leave a claim down there a couple of month ago , I cancel it and move to another spot , and a couple of friend of mine go in there and decide to carry on a bit further and they find a nice parcel , '' he say . 
`` Bit of nice semi-black opal and quite valuable , so they 're very happy , and actually I 'm happy for them too . 

Tractor driver finish cross-country journey 
A group of tractor driver be toast their success in cross the continent in a series of veteran Chamberlains . 
The member of the 9G Chamberlain Tractor Club have bump along country roads all the way from Perth to the northern tip of Cape York . 
They have be travel at a top speed of 45 kilometre an hour . 
Spokesman George Baldwin say they expect to raise $ 25,000 for the Royal Flying Doctor Service and regional hospital . 
`` Most of the people come from Western Australia , '' he say . 
`` They 've journey through from Perth to Ayers Rock to Alice Springs to Mount Isa , Cloncurry to Weipa . 
`` Yesterday we go to the tip with 15 tractor and everyone cheer and have champagne and what not . 

Fire deal link science , Indigenous knowledge 
A world-first agreement to link modern science and traditional Aboriginal knowledge be set to revolutionise fire management in the Top End of the Northern Territory . 
The agreement be between various level of government , a liquefy gas company and traditional Indigenous group in the West Arnhem land area . 
It have take 10 year to develop . 
Consultant Dr Justin Russell-Smith say the deal will protect area recognise around the world for their biodiversity . 
`` For management at the local scale it 's critical , '' he say . 
`` There 's no other real economic opportunity for people to get employ , get back onto country . 

Frost-hit tobacco crop attract low price 
Australian tobacco grower be receive poor price for their bale , a the selling season wind up . 
Most grower be base in north-east Victoria , where a severe frost in early April take a heavy toll on tobacco plant . 
Yesterday 's sale at Myrtleford confirm grower fear of a poor season a bale be assess for quality . 
John Moore , from the Tobacco Cooperative , say grower will lose money this year . 
`` There will be some financial hardship with people not harvest all of their crop , '' he say . 
`` Perhaps what farmer in their term call it the cream . 

US look to boost fire prevention 
Authorities in the United States be look at more effective way to deal with severe bushfires . 
Jerry Williams , the former director of fire management with the Department of Agriculture , say mega-fires be become more dangerous a global warming increase . 
He say there need to be more emphasis on encourage the community to prevent fire . 
`` What we do be put everything every effort we can into combat those fire , '' he say . 

Water infrastructure upgrade 'waste of time ' 
The Productivity Commission say federal and state government be waste their time try to save water through infrastructure upgrade . 
The 2002 Living Murray Initiative include $ 500 million funding for good infrastructure to save water . 
The water be intend to be release a environmental flow . 
But the commission have release a report say that be expensive , and often detrimental to the environment . 
Spokesman Neil Byron want to see an independent environmental trust set up to buy water from irrigators instead . 

Flegg accuse of conflict of interest 
The leader of the Queensland Liberal Party have be accuse of a conflict of interest over his multi-million dollar share and investment portfolio . 
Dr Bruce Flegg have 100,000 share in Australia 's big irrigation property , Cubbie Station , worth around $ 16 million . 
He also hold share in other company , include forestry and rural medium . 
Ethicist Noel Preston believe the portfolio be a moral and political risk for Dr Flegg . 
`` Particularly now that he 's leader of the Liberal Party and particularly because the water issue , whether Cubbie Station or elsewhere in Queensland be such a high-profile concern , '' he say . 
`` It be quuite apparent that he should have a close look at the question of move his business interest right away from there . 
`` He 's open very easily , I think , to the charge of have no credibility if he be to offer opinion in that respect . '' 
Dr Flegg say his share portfolio be list on the Internet . 
He say he have never hide any relevant matter . 
`` My pecuniary interest have be on the public register now for almost three year for anyone to see , '' he say . 
`` Clearly the one message that come out of that be I 'm not here because I need a job . 
`` I 'm here because I want to fix the health system in Queensland . 
`` In government there be a likelihood I would have to divest most or all of those holding . '' 

AWB executive announces retirement 
AWB senior executive Jill Gillingham have announce her retirement , two day after give evidence at the oil-for-food Inquiry . 
The inquiry heard that Ms Gillingham act a the go-between for former AWB bos Andrew Lindberg and American public relation expert Peter Sandman in the drafting of the so-called apology document . 
She be also involve in negotiate $ 750 million a year worth of grain handling and storage contract , and in co-ordinating AWB 's response to the UN 's Volcker inquiry . 

Tasmanian farmer fear plantation ' impact 
Farmers in north-west Tasmania be demand change to state planning law , to stop valuable farmland be convert to timber plantation . 
They air their concern at a community meeting last night , a settlement loom on the sale of a 320 hectare property which be under contract to Great Southern Plantations . 
About 170 farmer pack into the small memorial hall in the farm community of South Riana . 
They be concern for the future of the area , which have be build on successful dairy and cropping enterprise . 
They be call for the Tasmanian Government to abolish plantation development on prime agricultural land and will take their resolution to the Planning Minister next week . 
The meeting come within day of the King Island Council become the first in Tasmania to ban plantation on rural land , fear they will risk the viability of dairy and beef industry . 
Tasmanian Liberal Senator Richard Colbeck acknowledge there be a review under way into the tax arrangement for forestry manage investment scheme , label by some a the driver of plantation expansion . 

Amcor blame external factor for profit woe 
Australia 's second-largest cardboard manufacturer be blame cyclone Larry , high fuel price and a shift by the major supermarket into plastic crate for a big fall in profit . 
Amcor 's Australian division have report a 20 per cent profit plunge , down $ 54 million to $ 262 million , mainly due to fall cardboard sale . 
But spokesman Paul Ward say the horticulture sector should not expect a big jump in package price a a result . 
`` Price increase that may go through will purely relate to input that we have no control over , '' he say . 
`` Everyone know about the fuel cost that severely impact business like ourselves . 

Oxiana to expand Prominent Hill mine 
Oxiana Limited say it will spend $ 775 million develop the Prominent Hill copper gold mine in South Australia into one of the nation 's big copper producer . 
The mine , which be 120 kilometre from Olympic Dam , be discover in 2001 . 
It be widely consider to be the find of the decade . 

Tanami Gold due to begin first pour 
Australia 's most remote gold mine be expect to pour it first gold this weekend . 
The Tanami Gold Mine , on the edge of the Tanami Desert in northern Western Australia , open in May . 
It have expect it first gold to be sell last month . 
But a number of setback , include poor road for transport material , and a lack of worker have push back the start date . 
Chairman Denis Waddell say after all the delay , they will be take advantage of the good gold price . 
`` We 'll be sell it , we 've get a fair bit of expenditure at the moment , so we 're not in the position at the moment be we can punt on where the gold price be go , '' he say 

Stanton urge HGP declaration on beef 
Nutritionist Rosemary Stanton be call for good meat label that tell consumer whether Hormone Growth Promotants ( HGPs ) have be use in produce beef . 
The Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority believe promotants be use to produce 40 per cent of all beef produce in Australia . 
With a ban on HGPs in the European Union , Ms Stanton say shopper here should be tell about the history of the meat they be buy . 
`` There be two way you could do this , '' she say . 
`` You could just simply label the beef that come from animal that do n't have HGPs , so that it could be no HGPs use in the production of this meat , or the second way would be that you could say that they have be use . '' 

MLA poll rig concern Cattle Council 
The Cattle Council have express concern over the involvement of peak body Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) in an Internet poll rig scandal . 
It be reveal yesterday that two employee rorted an online poll about the MLA-run National Livestock Identification Scheme ( NLIS ) . 
Council president Bill Bray be worry but he say the incident should not be take out of context . 
`` There be a few silly individual that have lose their way and do something stupid but that will be sort out , '' he say . 

Wine study encourage regional leadership 
Winemakers be look at how they can work together to try to cut down long working hour . 
A new national project be under way look at cellar door competition and leadership . 
The Grape and Wine Research and Development Corporation want to encourage leadership in local region , include the Riverland and Hunter Valley . 
Consultant Jill Briggs say poor leadership mean many winemaker be overwork . 
`` There be a real sense that people who be grow wine and make wine be really time-poor , '' she say . 
`` They 've get lot of brainpower and lot of initiative and lot of enthusiasm . 

Growth conference examines seachanges ' impact 
A national conference in Tasmania this week be look at whether rural and coastal community can continue to cope with an influx of city resident . 
The 10th Sustainable Regional Economic Growth Conference have hear that the seachange and treechange trend have have mix result . 
Dr Geoff Cockfield , from the University of Southern Queensland , say city resident move in with high income and new skill , be now be hit by soar fuel price . 
`` Certainly that 's go to limit some thought of commute great distance , '' he say . 
`` On the other hand there be a possible upside to that , because high fuel price might mean that we do n't transport thing in , people do n't shop out quite as much . 

Aquaculture conference delegate descend on Adelaide 
Adelaide be host the world 's large aquaculture conference over the next three day . 
More than 1,000 delegate from around the world be attend Skretting Australasian Aquaculture . 
The theme be innovation , advance and promote growth within the industry on a global scale . 
Tuna , shellfish , kingfish , barramundi , prawn , sea urchin along with marketing and corporate branding be just a smidgen of what be on the agenda . 
Aquaculture be the fast grow food produce sector in the world and provide about 27 per cent of total seafood supply . 

Cornish look to halt SAFF infighting 
The South Australian Farmers Federation ( SAFF ) have appoint a new president a it attempt to stop fall membership level . 
Wayne Cornish , who head up SAFF between 1995 and 1999 , have be return to the top job . 
He have just complete six year a vice president of the National Farmers Federation . 
Mr Cornish say he hop to bring unity to the SAFF , which have be plague by infighting . 
`` There have be in recent day too much of a temptation to do our dirty wash in public and that be go to stop , '' he say . 

AWI value benefit to grower at $ 417m 
Peak body Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) say it have deliver $ 417 million in benefit to woolgrowers over the past three year . 
That be accord to an independent assessment of the research and development organisation , which have be release a grower prepare to vote on future levy payment . 
The report say AWI have establish more than 50 direct business relationship to market Australian wool . 
Chief executive Len Stephens say those relationship be the future of the sector . 
`` This week I 'll be in Shanghai and Hong Kong with our textile team and we 'll be talk to 40 international retailer and show them what we call our innovation collection for next year , '' he say . 
`` In the textile area , I think we 've change our business model to what it be three year ago . 
`` I 'm feel very confident that that model will work and will produce improved demand for wool over the next couple of year . '' 

Court reject Gunns claim against activist 
An attempt by Tasmanian timber company Gunns Limited to seek damage from 20 environmentalist have be strike out in the Victorian Supreme Court . 
Gunns be seek almost $ 7 million from the activist . 
It be claim the activist have damage profit and interfered with contract by campaign against the company 's logging activity . 

US ramp up beef export to Japan 
The United States Agriculture Department say beef export worth around almost $ 400 million will be sell to Japan this financial year . 
It be a far cry from export level before the outbreak of mad cow disease in the US . 
USDA say beef will slowly move back into the Japanese market , which have be dominate by Australia since the first US mad cow case in 2003 . 
Economist Monte Vandeveer estimate the US will export close to one-third of it pre-mad cow level to Japan in fiscal 2007 . 
`` I think we could see in the neighbourhood of maybe $ 400 million worth of beef export to Japan in fiscal 2007- less than a third of what we saw in the pre-BSE period , '' he say . 
USDA say that be still about 20 per cent of the Japanese market . 

Drought , dollar dent SunRice profit 
Another year of drought , the rise Australian dollar and international competition have contribute to a big profit downturn for one of the nation 's big food exporter . 
SunRice have announce a profit of $ 5 million , down from $ 33 million the year before . 

Mango grower comfortable with import decision 
The mango industry say it be not concern by a decision to allow import from Taiwan into Australia . 
Biosecurity Australia have approve an application to import mango under strict regulation , include vapour heat treatment of the fruit before they leave Taiwan . 
Trevor Dunmall , from the Australian Mango Industry Association , say there will only be a narrow window for the fruit to compete with the homegrown product . 
`` The Taiwanese season 's basically counter-seasonal to the Australian season although there could be some overlap in their season with our early season mango , '' he say . 

Western grower experiment with summer crop 
While crop in the west be usually grow in the winter month and harvest in the summer month , this year be a bit topsy-turvy . 
Some grower be experiment with summer crop like millet and sorghum to provide more feed for livestock . 
Consultant Simon Teakle say seed be relatively cheap and the crop could be a good option for grower struggle through a dry season . 
`` People have obviously , at the moment , get a shortage of stock feed , '' he say . 
`` The type of carry capacity that forage sorghum and forage millet have be quite large , because of the amount of growth that they get , provide they get sub-soil moisture in there . 

Central Qld farmer predict bumper harvest 
The wheat harvest have start in central Queensland , where grower be expect a bumper 500,000 tonne harvest . 
The late forecast from the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics predict an 11 per cent drop from last year 's near-record harvest of 40.5 million tonne nationwide . 
Consultant Pat McKee say it be the first time since the 2000 winter season that central Queensland farmer look like they will have an above-average crop . 
`` I think that even with the warm finish that the crop , particularly north of Emerald and north of Capella , will be quite good as far a quality be concern , '' he say . 

Horticulture code delay anger grower 
Fruit and vegetable grower be become increasingly angry at delay to their promised code of conduct . 
Two year ago the Federal Government pledge a mandatory code to improve transparency between grower and wholesaler . 
A group of north Queensland grower issue an ultimatum last week in an attempt to force the Government to confirm whether the code will be mandatory or voluntary . 
Atherton Tablelands fruit grower Scott Dixson say it be a disgrace that the deadline have pass and they still have not hear from the Government . 
`` You tell me what other business sends away their total annual production to a third-party not know what financial return they will receive and no legal right of documented evidence of what it in fact sell for ? '' he say . 
`` The New South Wales Farmers Association have already go to press over this issue and they have actually accuse the Government of hold it up , surely because of the Queensland election . '' 
Queensland Nationals Senator Ron Boswell say he understand grower ' frustration , but he can not make any promise . 

Farmer confidence hit 4-year low : survey 
Farmer confidence level have slump to a four-year low , accord to the late quarterly survey by Rabobank . 
A lack of winter rain have cause farmer in most state to be more pessimistic about their outlook , with the big fall in confidence in Western Australia , closely follow by Victoria and South Australia . 
Peter Knobblanche say cereal cropper and dairy farmer be the most concerned , follow by beef , sheep , wool and lamb producer . 
`` It be last this bad in 2002 when we have the big drought then so we 're follow suit I guess into the dry season again , '' he say . 

New project to cut Murray River salinity 
More project to reduce salinity in the Murray River will be build under a new $ 28.5 million project . 
The state and federal government will fund the salt interception scheme . 
John Johnson , from the Natural Resource Management Board , say other project will also benefit . 

Survey 'dispels myth ' farm harm environment 
A wildlife survey in the southern Riverina of New South Wales have find more than 300 unusual and endangered animal live on irrigation property . 
Irrigators instigate the survey across more than 1 million hectare of the Murray River catchment . 
Albury-based ecologist Matthew Herring say the finding dispel the perception that farming be bad for the environment . 
`` There be some really exciting specie find like the little gilbert whistler that you get in red gum area where there 's a dense understorey , '' he say . 

Stripe rust find in NSW , SA wheat crop 
The fungal disease , stripe rust , have be discover in wheat crop in northern New South Wales and South Australia for the first time this year . 
The highly contagious disease , which can cut crop yield by up to 50 per cent , have be find between Moree and Narrabri , and on the Yorke Peninsual . 
Dr Gordon Murray , from the Department of Primary Industries in New South Wales , say the disease could spread . 
He say grower with low yield need to decide whether it be worth use fungicide . 
`` With the generally dry condition that will tend to slow the amount of stripe rust but it will also mean that the damage it do will be much less , '' he say . 
`` Dryland crop be unlikely to benefit from spray unless we get a turnaround in the season and a lot more rain . '' 
Stripe rust be find on the leaf of wheat plant , in the form of yellow stripe or spore . 

High temperature mark Dowerin field day 
An unusually warm day have mark the start of Western Australia 's large field day in the Wheatbelt town of Dowerin . 
Today 's expect top of around 27 degree seem to reflect the strange season be endure by many farmer this year . 
But a Jane Grieve report , big crowd be still expect . 
`` Out of the car window on the way to Dowerin , two hour north east of Perth , crop be patchy and stock feed marginal . 
`` Machinery sale could be affect this year , with many farmer not anticipate a good harvest . 

Traditional owner decry mine expansion approval 
Environmental approval have be grant for the expansion of the McArthur River Mine in the Gulf of Carpentaria . 
The conversion of the zinc and lead mine to open-cut involves move the McArthur River five kilometre . 
Despite the green light and the promise of a substantial environmental management bond , local traditional owner still oppose the move . 
Spokesman Jack Green say talk of local training program be not enough . 
`` It 's the main river ... we [ have ] culture and ceremony and sacred site tie up on that river , '' he say . 
`` If they 're go to change it and that 's go to really make u upset , really worried about it . 
`` It 's go to bugger up the song line , the dream line you know . 
`` It 's bad enough already . '' 

ATV industry work on safety standard 
Motorcycle company say they be create a national safety standard for four-wheel all-terrain bike . 
There have be concern for some year about the number of crash involve all-terrain vehicle ( ATVs ) . 
The New South Wales Coroner be investigate the late , the death of a 55-year-old rider on a farm on the Monaro in New South Wales . 
Yamaha safety lawyer Kelly Stallard say the industry be work on standard , a code of practice , and educate rider . 
`` The ATV industry be very concerned with occupational health and safety issue , '' she say . 
`` We be finalise an industry code of practice for user , particularly farmer , on the safe use of these machine . 

Heifer export may hurt dairy industry : Perkins 
With the ongoing dry weather condition , export of dairy heifer might help to save farmer . 
But one industry leader be worry about the long-term impact on the Australian herd . 
Turkey be the late country to inquire about Australian livestock , a it look to set up it own breeding herd . 
But Michael Perkins , from the Holstien-Fresian Association , say milk company need to offer farmer good price , to stop Australia 's best livestock disappear overseas . 
`` If milk price do go down like the indication be at the moment - there 's a 2 to 5 per cent drop in the commodity price - then we could be look at a lot of heifer leave this country , '' he say . 
`` That would be sad for the industry long-term . 

Farmers to vote on Dairy Australia levy 
Dairy farmer will vote for the first time early next year on how much they should pay to peak body Dairy Australia . 
Producers currently pay a levy of one-third of a cent per litre to fund research and development , marketing and trade issue . 
The levy total $ 32 million a year . 
Dairy Australia 's John McKew say the levy will have to increase just to maintain current work . 
`` They have to start think about it now , '' he say . 
`` As their national service body Dairy Australia , how be we go to fund the service that we currently have which be imperative for the industry , but also what be we go to do about the issue which be on our doorstep or on the cusp of it , issue that we need to manage a an industry move forward ? . 

Drought blame for cattle indicator drop 
A lack of rain be be blame for the big weekly fall in the Eastern Young Cattle Indicator since April last year . 
The indicator of price from saleyards in the eastern state be consider a guide to general price trend . 
It fell 14 cent last week and be hover around $ 3.60 , compare to $ 4.00 at the same time last year . 
Peter Weeks , from Meat and Livestock Australia , say if it do not rain the market could fall by up to 60 cent a kilo . 
`` Certainly without widespread rain in the next four to six week , I think we will see price fall back further , '' he say . 
`` They will gradually decline move into late this year and early next year , simply because demand be come back on export market and we 've get the spring supply about to come on . '' 
In the south-west of Western Australia a surge of dairy herd on to the market have cause the price of cow to fall $ 150 per head . 
With low demand locally , dairy farmer from the east be buy cow , truck them across the Nullarbor , and still save between $ 100 and $ 200 per head . 
Livestock agent Karl Harnett say with more WA farmer leave the industry , there be a big gap for the eastern state to capitalise on . 
`` Basically right across the eastern seaboard over the last 12 month there have be a shortage of dairy cattle , especially quality dairy cattle , '' he say . 
`` Within in the last six month we 've probably see around 700 to 800 dairy cattle that have move across the border . 

Advertising fund to help stonefruit grower 
The Federal Government have announce a one-off $ 1 million grant to help stonefruit grower who can not sell fruit to Taiwan this year . 
Growers have be lock out of the export market due to new fruit fly protocol . 

McGauran lean toward voluntary horticulture code 
There be grow sign the horticulture industry will have to be satisfy with a voluntary code of conduct . 
The Federal Government originally pledge a mandatory code to give fruit and vegetable producer more negotiating power in the market place . 
But Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say a voluntary code be now be give serious consideration , although no final decision have be make . 
`` One thing we want to avoid by way of a mandatory code be polarisation of the industry , '' he say . 
`` You need the whole of supply chain in horticulture work together a we face the pressure of cheap import and a voluntary code of conduct may very well serve to bring industry closer together for mutual benefit . 

AWB play down Cole inquiry to grower 
Wheat exporter AWB have tell Victorian grain grower it do not think the Cole inquiry into allegation of sanction-breaking kickback will present any problem for the company . 
AWB 's Brendan Stewart and Ian Donges have also tell a grain grower ' meeting in Melbourne that they believe the company will be in a position to rebuild after the inquiry . 
The Victorian Farmers Federation grain group president , Ian Hastings , say he believe AWB have ask for similar meeting with farmer group in other state . 
`` Brendan Stewart speak about how the Cole inquiry be progress and the fact that AWB still be clearly of the belief that they have not really do anything wrong , '' he say . 
`` They expect at the end of the Cole inquiry that [ they ] should be able to start and rebuild the company . 
`` They do n't believe that they have actually break any law so I guess we all need to wait and see . '' 
AWB spokesman Peter McBride say the company do not want to make any public statement pre-empting the outcome of the Cole inquiry . 

Clean Seas eye onshore tuna breed success 
South Australian company Clean Seas believe it might be only a year away from become the first to crack the secret of breed tuna onshore . 
The problem lie in try to replicate breeding condition in the wild , where tuna travel vast distance to find warm water to spawn . 
Marine biotechnologist Abigail Elizur say the company be draw on knowledge from around the world to try to speed up the process . 
`` I hope that by the end of the year or the start or the beginning of 2007 we will already have spawn and we certainly will try and apply all the previous knowledge , '' she say . 

Isolated grower ship fruit to Europe 
Mango grower in Katherine and Kununurra in far north Western Australia be set up a company to sell fruit directly to European market . 
Trials of send fruit to Europe via sea freight have until now be heavily finance by government and industry . 
The success of those trial have lead to the new venture . 
Executive officer Jill Parker be confident it will work , despite difficult market condition in recent year . 
`` Not a lot of prospect on export for this area other than get this sea freight to work , '' she say . 
`` It 's be difficult for them to be able to justify to spend this sort of money that 's need to to get this off the ground . 

Bull sale may have set record 
Livestock agent believe a charolais bull sale in southern Queensland have set an Australian record . 
Despite the drought , 188 palgrove bull sell for an average of $ 11,412 each this week . 
It be the high average price for a single vendor , on-property sale . 

Animals continue to feel cyclone 's impact 
Native and feral animal be show up on farm look for food more than five month after cyclone Larry cross the north Queensland coast . 
The cyclone damage 15,000 home , disrupt farming and devastated bushland . 
Atherton Tablelands dairy farmer James Geraghty say he have never see such an explosion of wildlife . 
`` A mate 's got cassowary come onto his lawn , '' he say . 
`` There 's a six-metre python living in a bloke 's house in Cairns because he 's get nowhere to live in the scrub . 
`` Pigs and dog we have n't see the number of what you call feral animal outside the scrub for a long long time . 

Animal welfare kit well-received : Dairy Australia 
Dairy Australia say it effort to address animal welfare have be well-received . 
The peak body have work with the RSPCA and Animals Australia to develop an animal welfare kit . 
Spokeswoman Brigid Peachey say the kit discuss contentious issue , include the handling of bobby calf , dehorn and tail docking . 
`` What the kit 's about be to let farmer know that they 're do on farm be already good animal welfare in term of on-farm husbandry , '' she say . 
`` What we be hop it 's do be give them the word to go out there , and talk to people about animal welfare and what they be do in term of just their good on farm practice . 

Cattle Council , RSPCA talk welfare 
In a new approach to address animal welfare issue , the Cattle Council have hold talk with the RSPCA for the first time . 
The meeting be part of an animal welfare roundtable at the Cattle Council 's executive meeting in Hobart . 
President Bill Bray say the livestock industry can improve it image by work with group which be trust by the public . 
`` RSPCA do have that respect , they have some view that be contrary to ours but we have to engage them and we have to get smarter at how we engage them and engage the community , '' he say . 

SA wool grower oppose AWI levy increase 
Wool grower in southern South Australia say they will not support a push to increase the levy they pay to the peak body , Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) . 
A report release this week say AWI have return $ 417 million in benefit to the wool industry . 
But grower say they will not vote to increase the levy above the current rate of 2 per cent in this year 's wool poll . 
Tony Hedges , from Keith , do not think grower should pay anything . 
`` What have they do for u ? '' he say . 
`` What they 're do now be the repeat of what they do 20 year ago , and what happen 20 year ago be the repeat of what they do 20 year before . 
`` I do n't think they need any more money , I think they squander what money they 've get there now . 
`` They 've have their chance and they 've blow it , I think . '' 
Trevor Little , from Kongorong , say grower have see little output from the AWI . 
`` The money that 's be achieve over the year , and many year of the levy on the wool have not really in the last 10 year achieve anything , '' he say . 
Malcolm McDonald , from Willalooka Pastoral Company , add : `` I do n't think , from a promotional point of view , that it 's be spent wisely . 

Woolgrowers revise PETA case claim 
There have be a new development in the ongoing Federal Court case between Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) and animal right group PETA . 
The 103 woolgrowers support the action will now no longer allege that they have suffer a direct economic loss a a result of a PETA campaign . 
The case centre on allegation that PETA 's action have reduce sale of wool by spread negative publicity and misinformation about the wool industry and the practice of mulesing . 
Les Targ , from AWI , say the grower be still involve in other part of the class action . 
`` What be happen be that those 103 woolgrowers be no longer claim direct economic loss because of the difficulty of prove that , '' he say . 
`` You 've get to remember that they say goodbye to their wool at the farm gate and there 's about six different owner between them and the retailer that sell the finished product . 

NLIS poll hack probe continue 
An independent review into tamper with an Internet poll on the National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) be expect within the next week . 
Meat and Livestock Australia say the report by Ernst and Young be take long than expect because of the depth and breadth of the review . 

Audits find mutton label a lamb 
Three abattoir have be tell to clean up their act , after be catch process mutton a lamb . 
The industry watchdog AusMeat uncover the breach in Victoria and New South Wales during regular audit . 
The authority can not confirm how much meat head for the domestic market have be wrongly label . 
Chief executive Ian King now want all animal assess before processing , instead of the current 10 per cent sample . 
`` Back in 1991 there be actually a standard under an AusMeat advice that actually require all ovine animal to be assess , '' he say . 

AWB secret clause may cost grower 
The wheat export regulator have confirm that grower could face loss , because of a confidential clause in a contract between the corporate and export arm of AWB . 
If the grain handler lose it export monopoly after the oil-for-food Inquiry , AWB Limited could claim damage from the national wheat pool . 
The pool be run by AWB International and pay grower for their grain . 
The Wheat Export Authority say it have a number of concern about the contract , which be now be re-negotiated a part of an AWB restructure . 
But AWB International chairman Ian Donges deny damage could run to ten of million of dollar . 
`` It 's a three-year agreement so if you break the agreement in the first year it would be great than in the last year of the agreement but we be only talk in the end of the day many small number of million of dollar if anything , '' he say . 
`` There have be no problem between the two company in term of the way this contract have be perform - at AWB International , we have be extremely pleased with the performance of AWB Limited . 
`` Speculation there be go to be a break in the contract be purely that . '' 
Mr Donges ' comment have not reassure the Grains Council of Australia . 
Chairman Murray Jones say grower should not be pay for the fee at all and want AWB to make the service agreement public immediately . 
`` There should n't be a fee that go back to grower for a separation fee and if there be a break fee then we really need to know what it be , '' he say . 
`` We be really call on AWB to tell u what the service agreement contain , tell u what the break fee may be and any liability that the grower may take on . '' 

Former AWB executive dispute colleague 's evidence 
A former AWB executive have deny to the Cole inquiry that he hatch a plan with the Iraqi Grains Board in October 2000 to set up a scheme through which trucking fee would be pay . 
AWB 's former general manager for marketing , Charles Stott , have tell the hearing he reject evidence give last week by his former colleague , Dominic Hogan . 
Senior counsel assist the inquiry , John Agius QC , go straight to an October 2000 series of handwritten note and letter involve a meeting with Mr Hogan , Mr Stott and the Iraqi Minister for Trade . 
Mr Stott refute Mr Hogan 's claim that he have anything to do with the establishment of an incentive scheme through which trucking fee would be pay . 
Mr Agius then ask Mr Stott if he be suggest that Mr Hogan 's note be make up . 
Mr Stott then reply : `` I have absolutely no idea . 
`` I do n't know where they be draft , I 'm not even sure he take note . '' 

Victorian ram take out Supreme Merino title 
A superfine ram from Victoria have take out one of the wool industry 's most prestigious award . 
Champion ram from five state compete for the Supreme Merino Ram title last night at the National Merino Sheep Show at Dubbo in central western New South Wales . 
The ram Rockbank Dozer , from the Rockbank Stud at Dunkeld in Victoria 's west , be name the best . 
`` He 's 16 micron and he 's a very large ram for that quality - he 's 130 kilo , '' stud principal John Crawford say . 

Wheat grower win young farmer title 
A Western Australian wheat grower have be name National Young Farmer of the Year . 
Mogumber 's Cameron Williams , 27 , win the public speaking , agronomy and fence module of the competition . 
He say it be tough job beat the 14 other finalist . 
`` The other guy from the other state be really good quality and have a lot of skill and have different experience to me , '' he say . 
`` But certainly the day be just a lot of fun , a real learning experience . 

Retailers question winemaker ' environmental credential 
Australian winemaker be be tell they need to show they be clean and green , with a grow number of overseas retailer ask about the environmental credential of their supplier . 
Seventy per cent of the nation 's wine grape crush be already sign up to a stewardship program which document good environmental practice . 
Amy Russell , from the Winemakers Federation , say retailer in the United Kingdom in particular be concern about water use , waste and greenhouse gas emission . 
`` There 's certainly increasing pressure out there from non-government organisation and even from some retailer to actually prove any claim that you may have , '' she say . 
`` We do have that inherent position of be clean and green and it 's not just in the wine industry it 's in many industry . 

SA bushfire season may start early 
South Australia 's bushfire season could be bring forward because of the threat pose by the predicted hot dry summer . 
Deputy chief officer Andrew Lawson , from the Country Fire Service , say the lack of winter rain have also raise the fire threat . 
The state 's bushfire season usually start on the Eyre Peninsula on November 1 . 
But Mr Lawson say but it could begin week earlier . 
`` We 're very concerned about the lack of rain over winter and that will lead to the forest fuel be dry a lot earlier , '' he say . 

Sunbeam Foods back in the black 
Australia 's big dry fruit processing company have record a big turnaround , post a $ 7 million profit before tax . 
Sunbeam Foods , in Victoria 's north-west , also run a citrus pack shed and juice business . 
The company have reduce it debt by $ 30 million by sell asset , reduce stock and good manage cash . 
Chief executive Richard Findlay say the result be an improvement on last year 's $ 700,000 loss but it be still unsatisfactory . 

Mango grower expect bumper harvest 
The Australian mango harvest have begin , with pick under way at Pine Creek in the Northern Territory . 
Early indication suggest a bumper crop but despite the amount of fruit , grower be still hopeful of strong price . 
Michelle Hill , who manage the Pine Creek Plantation , say cyclone Larry 's impact on banana price could have a positive spin-off for mango . 
`` We 've be pay a lot of money for banana over the last sort of six month so I think that the mango will come in and people will go , 'Oh gee these be not so expensive ' , '' she say . 

Q-fever case prompt push to relocate abattoir 
A push have begin to relocate a Victorian abattoir after link be make to four case of the disease Q-fever . 
The Wodonga meatworks be locate within the Wodonga city boundary . 
The local council have now announce a feasibility study into move it to a location well away from populate area . 
Last month the Victorian Department of Human Services reveal four people in Wodonga have Q-fever . 
It name one possible cause a dust from hold yard at the abattoir . 
None have direct contact with livestock , the usual transmitter of the disease . 
The meatworks be own by Norvic Food Processing . 
The company 's general manager , John Hayes , acknowledge that eventually the abattoir will have to be relocate . 

Cole inquiry await document rule 
The oil-for-food inquiry into allegation AWB pay $ 300 million in kickback to the Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein have be adjourn to a date to be fix . 
The inquiry be now wait for the Federal Court to decide if hundred of secret AWB document can be examine by Commissioner Terence Cole . 

Rail price dispute may see grain truck 
AWB and GrainCorp say all Queensland grain could have to be transport by road in future because they have not be able to strike a deal on freight rate with Queensland Rail . 
The rail company say there have be a verbal agreement for a 12 per cent average increase in freight rate . 
But Lachlan Benson , from AWB , say there be no deal and the propose increase of between 10 and 20 per cent be concern . 
''The propose rate put forward raise serious concern with u a to whether rail remain a viable option for grower to export their grain , '' he say . 
`` What that actually might mean for the rail network ... [ be ] you be go to see a large percentage of the harvest transfer to road . '' 

Expert urge strong water rule 
The right of farmer and rural and regional community to have access to water be expect to cause legal battle in the future . 
A water policy expert believe state government need to improve the legal framework for water , a new pipeline be build to solve water shortage in the city . 
Professor Jennifer McKay , from the University of South Australia , say there many issue with pip water from one region to another . 
`` Because we 're now enter the era where we will be cross-sharing water between different watershed , '' she say . 
`` This will bring up the issue of payment and intersectoral conflict . 

Goulburn Murray water diversion 'not fair ' 
Farmers be dismay at the Victorian Government 's plan to divert water away from the Goulburn Murray irrigation district to supply two regional city . 
The State Government be build a pipeline from the Waranga Basin to Bendigo , and now want to extend it as far a Ballarat . 
But Simon Ramsey say it be not fair on dairy farmer and fruit grower , who will only receive 7 per cent of the water allocation this season . 
`` It 's disappointing give the angst and apprehension in the rural community about the present prolonged dry condition and also obviously the very little allocation particularly in the Goulbourn system and Campaspe , '' he say . 

Worker relocation scheme raise social concern 
Social welfare group have concern about Federal Government plan to pay the unemployed to move to regional area to fill labour shortage . 
Under a pilot scheme , the Government will offer potential worker up to $ 5,000 to move from area with above-average unemployment . 
The Agrifoods Industry Skills Council say there need to be major infrastructure infrastructure to make the project work . 
Lin Hatfield-Dodds , from the Australian Council of Social Service , have concern about the impact of the proposal on worker . 
`` Our concern be just if people do move for work what happen if that job do n't work out , what support and what safety net be we go to put in place to enable people to go back to where they 've come from ? '' she say . 
`` But there 's also and probably more importantly the organisational and emotional cost of move and the relational cost . 
`` People who do move a large distance for work often find that they can feel isolated . '' 
The mining sector do not think the project will help ease the labour shortage . 
Reg Howard-Smith , from the WA Chamber of Minerals and Energy , say the practice of fly worker in and out of mine site could be a major stumble block . 
`` We have n't see detail on what 's propose but if it 's a requirement to live in a regional centre , then obviously that preclude people work on a fly-in fly-out basis , '' he say . 

Govt accuse of withhold horticulture report 
The Horticulture Council have accuse the Federal Government of withhold two independent report , which it say highlight major failing in the sector 's voluntary code of conduct . 
The two-year-old report into the sector 's exist code be only publish on the Produce and Industry Ombudman 's website today . 
The move come just day after federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran signal that a new code to improve transparency in the industry , might also be voluntary . 
The council 's Mark Panitz say the report back up grower claim that the exist code be not work . 
`` Look the fundamental issue be that Government 's kept these annual report in the bottom draw so they would n't be in the public domain during this debate about the need for a mandatory code , '' he say . 
`` Now that person 's report , an independent report , have say there 's systemic problem within the industry within these annual report and it 's also clear evidence that the voluntary code do n't work . '' 

Thousands flock to Birdsville Races 
This weekend all outback road lead to Queensland 's far south-west corner , for the famous Birdsville Races . 
Spectators and competitor travel for day to attend the two-day race meet , which culminate with the $ 25,000 Birdsville Cup tomorrow . 
Karen Brook , the official race photographer , say the organiser be expect about 6,000 people to attend . 
`` Last night it be one of the big crowd a lot of u have see , '' she say . 
`` In town we actually have the Variety Bash Rally end in Birdsville on Wednesday . 
`` That in alone put another 700 people in Birdsville on Wednesday night that have now stay for the weekend . 

Spring bring high demand for flower 
It be the first day of spring and today mark the beginning of the peak demand season for fresh flower . 
Victorian wild flower farmer James Frew say it the busy time of the year a he prepare to sell to the hungry Sydney market . 
He say the eastern market be the most lucrative for flower producer . 
`` The market in Sydney be just , 'What have you get , what have you get ? What can you send me ? '' he say . 

Flower industry 'needs market ' to blossom 
Flower grower be be tell they need to invest up to half-a-million dollar in a national marketing campaign to boost sale . 
The industry generate up to $ 900 million in farm gate sale each year . 
Brian Shannon , from the Flower Association of Queensland , say that figure could double , if Australia heed the British experience . 
`` They have a marketing campaign over there that increase the sale of cut flower by 100 per cent over five year , '' he say . 
`` What we 're try to do be let our member and grower know that this be the sort of thing we need to do in Australia . 

Cattle , lamb slaughterings down 
The number of animal be slaughter for meat across Australia have fall for the fourth month in a row . 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics say cattle slaughterings in July fell to 640,000 , the low since last December . 

CWA call for country of origin label 
The Country Women 's Association ( CWA ) be call on shopper to buy homegrown produce at the supermarket , to help ensure the survival of Australian agriculture . 
The 32nd national conference of the CWA have bring more than 100 delegate to Darwin this week . 
The new president , Tasmanian Leslie Young , say cheap import and the drought mean it be time for everybody to work together . 

Banana price tip to stay high 
If you be hop to see a fall in the price of banana this month , wholesaler be warn u not to hold our breath . 
Market analyst have be predict a gradual return of banana to the market , a north Queensland farm recover from the impact of cyclone Larry . 
That would lead to low price . 
But Sydney banana wholesaler Harry Theoharous say those high price will be around for a few month yet . 
`` We 've be get a reasonable volume of fruit out of the New South Wales grow area and a they 've go through a very cold winter their supply now do dwindle away , '' he say . 
`` We do see a slight increase of fruit come out of Queensland but we 're still look at around 20 week before we get some reasonable volume come in . 

Snail force citrus shipment redirection 
A brown snail the size of a pin head have be find in a shipment of Australian citrus fruit be export to the United States . 
It be the second year in a row that a snail from a pack shed in the Sunraysia region have be find by US quarantine official . 
Peter Walker , from exporter Riversun , say somehow the snail slip through local quarantine procedure . 
The affected fruit will now have to be sell to another country . 

Quarantine protocol hit fruit , vegetable grower 
The Australian Horticultural Exporters Association say it have never be hard or more expensive to send fruit and vegetable overseas . 
It say the value of horticulture export have fall $ 230 million , or 30 per cent , since 2003 . 
Deputy chair David Minnis say tough quarantine protocol impose by other country be take their toll . 
`` Just about any fruit that 's host for fruit fly - so mango , table grape , stonefruit , cherry , apple , pear , citrus - all of these fruit have restriction put on their movement into a whole range of country , '' he say . 

Cattle industry prefers 'duffing ' to 'rustling ' 
A move be on to halt the Americanisation of English in rural area . 
The cattle industry be demand an end to the use of the American phrase `` cattle rustling '' when refer to livestock theft , rather than the more Aussie `` cattle duffing '' . 
Language expert Professor Roly Sussex , from the University of Queensland , say the term `` cattle rustling '' be now widespread , but it be neither necessary nor particularly appropriate . 

Newton name produce Ombudsman 
A new Ombudsman have be appoint to regulate dispute between fruit and vegetable producer and buyer . 
It follow the release of two report question the merit of a voluntary code of conduct for the industry . 
The Federal Government have appoint David Newton from the Sydney-based Accord group a the Produce and Grocery Ombudsman . 
Growers want a mandatory code of conduct to help them negotiate with supermarket and wholesaler but the Federal Government seem to be lean towards a voluntary code . 
Mr Newton say there be nothing wrong with a voluntary code . 
`` I think there be plus and minus in each one , but I would n't say that just because a mandatory code be in place that that be go to provide 100 per cent improvement over voluntary , '' he say . 

Westpac predict base metal price drop 
In the mining sector the shine be come off the price of base metal , with forecaster Westpac predict a 35 per cent drop by the end of the year . 
Mining company Consolidated Minerals be blame a major slump in the price of manganese for a $ 6 million loss post yesterday . 
Commodity strategist Tobin Gorey say base metal price be closely align to the US economy , which be start to show sign of slow down . 
`` It 's be about a consumer spending boom , they 've spend a lot of money on a lot of different thing , especially house and so on , '' he say . 
`` Those consumer in their house and in their car and stuff too , use up a lot of metal , particularly copper and so on , and if that demand slow a it be now , then price will fall . '' 

Wool market climb slightly 
There be slight gain in the wool market this week , with only a small number of bale offer at sale in Sydney , Melbourne and Fremantle . 
The Eastern Market Indicator finish the week at 751 cent a kilogram , up three cent . 
The best result be in Melbourne , with fine micron jump between 10 and 30 cent . 

Dubbo merino ram sale price down 
The tough condition have be reflect at one of the nation 's top merino ram sale , which have record low average price than last year . 
The annual sale at Dubbo in central western New South Wales attract hundred of wool grower from across the country hop to pick up a bargain . 
The top price pay be just $ 18,000 for a local Roseville Park Stud ram , compare to last year 's high of $ 43,000 . 
Dave Hart , from Landmark , say some breeder make the most of the keen competition . 
`` There be a bit of pessimism around in the shed lead up to the sale , '' he say . 
`` I think it be a great value for money sale for stud and commercial grower , that will tend to happen , they be the ram that the smarter commercial grower will come here and pick up . 

Murray River winter flow at record low 
The Murray River have have it low winter flow on record due to the dry condition across the Murray Darling Basin . 
In a normal year almost 4,000 gigalitres of water flow down the system , but this year only about 400 gigalitres be record . 
Trevor Jacobs , from River Murray Water , say New South Wales irrigators will be most affected . 
`` Very limited water availability to New South Wales in particular , '' he say . 

Australia endure dry August since 1900 
On this first day of spring there be little surprise at news Australia have endure it dry August since record begin in 1900 . 
Preliminary figure show a national average rainfall of just 6.87 millimetre for August . 
Overall , an average of 43.9 millimetre of rain fell across Australia during the winter . 
Senior climatologist at the Bureau of Meteorology , Dr Andrew Watkins , say it have be decade since rain be so scarce . 
`` Australia-wide we only average about 6.2 millimetre for the month , so a very dry month , '' he say . 
`` Our previous dry Augusts be in 1914 and unfortunately 1982 be also a comparison - it have about 7.5 millimetre . 

Alpacas kill in dog attack 
Police be appeal for public help after four alpaca be kill in a dog attack at Yea in Central Victoria . 
The Alpacas be worth about $ 100,000 each . 

Scientists to tackle ocean census 
In a bid to measure the impact of the fishing industry scientist have decide to count every living thing in the ocean . 
The world 's first ocean census be under way and when it be finish in 2010 it will be use to help regulate the fishing industry . 
Senior scientist on the project Ron O'Dor say identifying every ocean specie be prove tough for some researcher . 
`` They be two and a half kilometres down in the water column on the end of a line chase this octopus with a slurp gun that go 'slurp ' and suck the animal in and then bring it back alive , '' he say . 

NT 's Vatskalis replace by newcomer Natt 
The Northern Territory have a new Primary Industries , Fisheries , Mines and Energy Minister . 
In a ministerial reshuffle cause by the resignation of health minister Peter Toyne , the portfolio have go to newcomer Chris Natt . 
One of his first job a Minister will be to be decide on the controversial McArthur River Mine expansion . 
However outgo mine minister Kon Vatskalis , who have be promote to Business , Economic and Regional Development , say Mr Natt 's inexperience might actually be an advantage . 
`` Working to a portfolio that you know nothing [ about ] , it give you the opportunity to actually develop , '' he say . 
`` It give you the opportunity to do something different . 

Middle East chef go on Aussie culinary tour 
Top chef and food buyer from the Middle East will tour Australia this month , search for the best local produce . 
The ten-day visit will take in fresh market and food produce company in four state . 
Marketing company Australian Quality Plus hop to increase sale of meat and seafood to the region as well a introduce new product like dairy . 
Managing director Steve Marafiote say Australian product have gain a reputation in the Middle East for their quality and sustainable supply . 
`` We 've really try to show the high end , high-quality product that be available out of Australia - show those benefit that be available , '' he say . 

Gold production hit low level in a decade 
Despite record high price this year , gold production in Australia have drop to it low level in 10 year . 
The late figure show a fall to 251 tonne of gold during the past financial year . 
Sandra Close from consultant Surbiton Associates say bad weather during the March quarter be largely to blame , while a lack of exploration be also a problem . 
`` Since the late '90s exploration for gold have go from about 60 per cent of total mineral exploration expenditure down to around 30 per cent of total mineral exploration expenditure , '' she say . 

Biofuel industry unviable without Govt support , say expert 
A new report have confirm call by the renewable energy sector for more support from the Federal Government . 
The report from Rabobank , a lead agribusiness bank , say a serious biofuels industry be unviable unless there be a long-term policy commitment . 
Spokeswoman Ingrid Richardson say ethanol and biodiesel production will not be economical unless there be Government mandate . 
`` My report look at what 's happen in the US , what 's happen in Brazil , what 's happen in Europe and basically all the support there be very long term , '' she say . 

Cattle producer urge to put off slaughter 
Cattle producer and dairy farmer face the prospect of another drought in Victoria be be urge to `` park '' their cow rather than send them to slaughter . 
The livestock saleyards have be pack with cheap cow and steer , a dry weather and low water allocation hit feed supply . 
Doug Chant from United Dairy Farmers of Victoria say agistment scheme have be vital during previous drought . 
`` Their only other option be to sell cow to go to slaughter and one of the concern be that it take so long to rebuild herd , '' he say . 

Beattie 's reaction to freeze bananas 'outrageous ' 
Queensland Premier Peter Beattie have be accuse of use concern over process banana import to boost his state election campaign . 
Voters go to the poll on Saturday . 
Mr Beattie say the Federal Government have break it promise not to allow banana import while Queensland grower recover from Cyclone Larry . 
Eleven tonne of cooked frozen banana pulp from Vietnam have be bring in for use by food manufacturer . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the local industry be not threaten in any way . 
`` It 's outrageous that the Premier would seize on this and create a quarantine scare when none exist and cause worry for many banana grower , who may not know the true situation , '' he say . 

Cane grower examine damage cause by deluge 
Cane farmer in north Queensland say it be too early to know the extent of damage from massive , unexpected rain . 
While September be suppose to be the dry month in the tropic , some farmer have receive up to 665 millimetre in the Herbert River District around Ingham over the weekend . 
That be 26 inch on the imperial scale . 
While farmer far south would love even a fraction of that rainfall , plant scientist Ron Van Kerkwyk say it have halt the sugarcane harvest , and could have a disastrous impact on thousand of hectare of newly plant cane . 
`` Planting be the high single operative cost you 've get on a farm and it really be a tragedy of some proportion when we get as much rain a we 've have here at this time of the year which , number one be fairly unusual and number two it 's impact by the fact that so much of the plant cane we have get be , relatively speak , very young , '' he say . 
In the south , where the rain be really need , the dry condition be start to hurt South Australia 's aquaculture industry . 
A lack of typical winter weather mean oyster be grow slow than normal , due to a lack of food . 
Simon Turner from Turner Aquaculture at Cowell , on the Eyre Peninsula , say without wind or rain , few nutrient be be produce in the seawater to make algae , which be a major food source . 
`` When we have deep low that come up from the Southern Ocean , [ they ] promote upwellings which also create algae and feed for our oyster and that 's something that we have n't have much of at all this year , '' he say . 

Survey suggest city dweller in the dark about farm 
A new Landcare survey show more than 60 per cent of people live in the capital city have little or no understanding of Australian farm . 
It also show that only one in three people have ever visit a farm . 
Landcare commission the research to gauge what people know of effort by farmer to improve the environment . 
And chief executive Brian Scars Brick say the rural sector need to do more to educate those live in urban area . 
`` The worrying trend of course be that for young people , the figure go right up to 70 per cent of people not know what be go on behind the farm gate , '' he say . 

Sheep flock decrease fast than expect 
The Australian sheep flock be diminish at a great rate than orginially expect , accord to figure just release by Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) . 
The 2006 Sheep Industry Projections show the national flock have five million sheep few than previously think , at around 100 million , due to the drought . 
But overseas demand for Australian prime lamb be boom , with export to Japan up 30 per cent , and the Middle East market be up by 21 per cent due to strong oil price . 
Live export remain steady at around 4.5 million . 
MLA 's chief market analyst , Peter Weeks , be warn that supply will be tighter , because of the slow task of rebuild . 
`` Over the next four year , instead of a 6 per cent a year rise in supply , it 's go down to about 2 per cent a year , '' he say . 

Bellamy reflect on Irwin legacy 
After the shock death of naturalist and television star Steve Irwin yesterday , talk be turn to the legacy the Queenslander have leave behind . 
The man know a the Crocodile Hunter die after be stab by a sting ray barb a he film a documentary off the coast of far north Queensland . 
British naturalist David Bellamy say he admire Steve Irwin 's capacity to invest personally in the environment . 

Golden spinifex could cut exploration cost 
Spinifex grass might be a natural signpost to untold wealth , accord to research finding in the Tanami Desert . 
Scientists have discover that spinifex plant can carry trace of gold in their leaf , if they be grow above a mineral deposit . 
Further research need to be do , but mine company say the discovery could lead to big saving in exploration cost . 
Dr Stephen Rogers from the Cooperative Research Centre for Landscape Environments and Mineral Exploration , say the grass be prove to be a natural metal detector . 
`` What the plant do be because it live in very arid region it need to get it water from the ground water so it put the most of it energy into create this huge single root that penetrate very , very deeply into the regolith , into the cover of the landscape to the ground water , '' he say . 

Herb and spice group urge research levy 
The Australian Herb and Spice Industry Association want it member to back plan for a levy to fund research and development . 
At present , most research be do by grower and processor , with some funding match by the Rural Industries and Research and Development Corporation ( RIRDC ) . 
Association chairman Robert Hayes say extra funding be need to look at present management , marketing , and find export destination . 
`` RIRDC will continue to work with u but it have be make plain and clear that they will only do so for so long before the industry have to stand on it own two foot , '' he say . 
`` Just how long that be we have n't be give any indication , but we 're not go to sit around and wait . 

Vic grower plan to fight market relocation 
Victorian fruitgrowers and horticultural exporter be plan to fight plan to relocate one of Australia 's big wholesale market . 
The State Government want to relocate the market from inner city Melbourne to the outer northern suburb , because it believe the exist site be too small . 
But spokesman for the grower and market user , Geoff Thomas , say the new site will be a waste of $ 300 million in taxpayer funding , because no one will use it . 

Tariffs on Thai can tuna , pineapple raise 
Australia have impose high tariff on canned tuna and pineapple from Thailand . 
The level of import of both product this year have reach the threshold to attract extra duty . 

China accept Aust citrus shipment 
China have accept Australia 's first official shipment of citrus fruit . 
A container of Queensland murcott mandarin have be send overseas under strict new quarantine protocol , which include on-farm inspection and cold sterilisation . 
In the past , fruit have enter China through Hong Kong . 
Kevin Parr from Australian Citrus Growers say orange from southern grow region have not meet the new protocol so far , so mandarin grower can now capitalise on the new export market . 
`` There 's about 15 container on the water at the moment that be go to arrive over the next fortnight , and one more go today , so I think it 's a total of about 15-16 container , '' he say . 

Tandou exit wine industry 
Dry condition and the ongoing wine glut have force a major agribusiness company to leave the wine industry . 
Tandou be sell it 21,000 tonne winery at Monash in South Australia 's Riverland , after record a $ 6.1 million loss for the past financial year . 
Chief executive Guy Kingwall say the company will be focus more on it cotton business . 
`` Tandou obviously be face significant challenge with the unprecedented drought area , and the flow of water in the Darling River system , '' he say . 

Dry condition threaten cereal crop 
Ongoing dry condition be start to take their toll on winter cereal crop in New South Wales . 
In the state 's north-west farmer be already report fail crop , and be turn sheep and cattle into the paddock to salvage what be leave after the dry winter . 
Ed Colless from the Special One Farmers Cooperative at Walgett , say crop plant on minimal moisture be start to wither , and without substantial rain , many more will end a stock feed soon . 

EPA defend Burrup gas project go-ahead 
The Environmental Protection Authority ( EPA ) in Western Australia have defend it decision to approve the development of the Pluto Liquefied Natural Gas project on the Burrup Peninsula . 
Major oil and gas producer Woodside want to build a processing facility on the north-west peninsula , which house what be believe to be the world 's big collection of aboriginal rock art . 
The Greens be outrage at the EPA 's decision , and be call on the state and federal government to block the development . 
But EPA chairman Wally Cox say the project be unlikely to compromise environmental or cultural objective . 
`` The company have be very responsible in the way it 's negotiate with the local Indigenous people , '' he say . 
`` It 's change it proposal on the way through to accommodate any concern the Aboriginal community have . 

Online shopping take off a petrol price remain high 
High retail and petrol price be believe to have contribute to a big jump in Internet shopping in regional Australia . 
ACNeilsen figure show shopping have increase by 20 per cent in the last year alone , with almost 1.5 million country people connect to the web . 
Western Queensland online shopper Janet Powne say it be more about convenience . 
She live in Bollon , which be 500 kilometre from the near major shopping centre . 
`` I just start out by mainly shop for gift - because we do n't have a selection of gift store that I can readily get to , I start investigate what 's online and one Christmas I buy all my gift online , '' she say . 

Cattle , worker shortage blame for early abattoir closure 
Australia 's second large meat processor Teys Brothers be blame a lack of cattle and a chronic labour shortage for it decision to close it abattoir in far north Queensland three-and-a-half month early . 
The Innisfail meatworks normally close for the wet season in December . 
One hundred and sixty worker will be affect , and chief executive Brad Teys say the company will try to relocate them to other plant , and move cattle by train to southern abattoir . 

Competition policy 'hurting rural community ' 
A new report say Australia 's push to become internationally competitive have hurt the economic well-being of country community . 
Research think-tank , the Australian Farm Institute , say National Competition Policy have affect essential service and infrastructure development in country town . 
Executive director Mick Keogh say a lack of decision-making at the regional level , and confusion over state and federal policy , be not help . 
`` Sometimes regional policy development seem to be aim at increase the population in rural centre , sometimes it seem to be aim at bring new industry into regional area , sometimes it seem to be aim at ease congestion in capital city , '' he say . 
`` So , I think a lot of confusion exists and a lot of government package that be call regional development package do n't seem to have a clear objective . '' 
Federal Minister for Transport and Regional Services , Warren Truss , say the Government be commit to ensure country town have a full range of service . 
But he say the Government expect regional community to identify what they need themselves and then come forward with those project . 

Warmer sea could be affect lobster catch 
Victorian fishery officer say rise sea temperature could be one factor cause a drop in rock lobster catch off the state 's west coast . 
Government monitoring program and independent survey have find the amount of lobster fisherman have be able to catch have drop by 10 percent in two year . 
Peter Appleford from Fisheries Victoria say it could be some time before scientist can establish whether it be due to environmental change , but some trend be emerge . 
`` It 's be note that the water temperature have be high than normal , '' he say . 
`` It 's also be note that in western Victoria there 's be less frequent and weak cold water upwellings which affect the fishery . 

Overnight rain welcome but not drought-breaking 
Victorian farmer say overnight rain have give die crop a reprieve and delayed decision to sell livestock . 
More than 20 millimetre have fall across many part of the Wimmera Mallee , a region that have have no significant rain since July , and where reservoir be at criticially low level . 
Farmers say this rain will not break the drought , but will keep their crop alive for another couple of week . 
`` A lot of the stubble crop I think will fire up a bit - they be nearly dead , pretty yellow , but the fallow be okay , it be just hang on , '' he say . 
`` But mainly my stock , I can hang onto my stock . 
`` We can look forward I guess to two or three more week , then we 're look for quite a bit more rain in the springtime to finish the crop off . 
`` We 've have 14 , it 'll turn it around pretty well for a couple of week . It be get pretty desperate up until now . 

Water market do roar trade 
The water market in southern New South Wales be do a roar trade , a irrigators try to secure extra water for winter crop . 
Internet trading company Waterfind say there be a 10-fold increase in water movement during August , with almost 30,000 megalitres sell in the Murray and Murrumbidgee valley . 
Prices have peak at $ 350 a megalitre , with the average price closer to $ 150 . 
Brett Tucker from Murrumbidgee Irrigation say after six year of drought some producer be sell water for high price , rather than use it themselves . 
`` You ca n't blame people for sell , there 's be such a differential in the market this year that I think the Murray valley 's become more attractive , '' he say . 
`` Ultimately people need to do whatever they can to get through these sort of circumstance . 

Sheep producer urge to offload stock 
Sheep producer in Western Australia be be urge to get rid of stock as soon a possible , because the seasonal indicator show the season be not go to improve . 
With ongoing dry weather , stock number be already down between 25 and 50 per cent in the northern zone , but with a lack of feed , authority say more will have to go . 
Tim Wiley from the Department of Agriculture and Food say if farmer hold off too much longer , they will have to shoot stock , because it will be too expensive to get them ready for market . 
`` The early you reduce stock number , the less stock you 'll have to get rid of , '' he say . 

Wheat , barley forecast drop due to dry condition 
The big dry have lead the Emerald Group to dramatically lower it wheat and barley forecast . 
The commodity management company be predict a crop of 16 million tonne of wheat , possibly rise to 19 million under ideal spring condition . 
Barley production be expect at six million tonne , and a canola crop of one million tonne . 
Executive director Mike Chaseling say low wheat and barley forecast have have a big impact on price . 
`` It 's be a spectacular rally here , basis level have drive up relative to US future dramatically in the last month or so , '' he say . 
`` Barley price be up $ 60 for the month , there 's be a spectacular rally here . 
`` Barley be trade in and around $ 230 a tonne , port less rail , right through most port zone in Eastern Australia and a bit higher in northern port zone . 

AWB 's Iraq scandal cost expect to surge 
A new estimate predict AWB 's legal cost and fine associate with the Iraq wheat scandal could surge to $ 280 million . 
Sharemarket analyst Austock say possible legal action by North American farmer and Australian shareholder , and potential fine from the Australian Tax Office and the Australia Federal Police will affect cost . 
But lawyer represent North American farmer , estimate their claim alone will cost the wheat exporter $ 1 billion . 
Atlanta lawyer Rodney Edmund say grower want to make AWB accountable for it action . 
''We 're work with lawyer in Australia . We 're work with lawyer in Washington DC , '' he say . 
`` Quite frankly we have lawyer in New York right now who be quite frankly ready to take a bite into this thing and obviously the only way to go up against a global , world renowned company be to have multiple multiple resource at hand do literally a wolf pack attack on this rogue company . '' 

Farmers to reap super change reward 
Farmers be expect to be the big winner from change to superannuation legislation introduce to Federal Parliament this week by the Treasurer , Peter Costello . 
Until next June , retire farmer will be able to tip up to $ 1 million into their super scheme , to make the most of tax-free payouts available to the over-60s from July 1 . 
Richard Gilbert from the Investment and Financial Planning Services Association expect to see a big shift in property . 
`` I think there be a general feeling around the industry I work in that there will be movement of asset in order to take advantage of this , '' he say . 
`` Typically it 's probably the property asset , probably the thing that they 'll be look at be the lumpy asset that may well be move . 
`` But those decision have to be do carefully and with due judgement on the market , need to think twice if they 're sell it off at a fire sale price . '' 
But there be fear the change could make it hard for manage investment scheme to attract fund . 
The scheme , which include plantation timber and almond grove , have traditionally rely on tax break to attract support . 
But Michael Spinks from the Institute of Chartered Accountants say investor might now top up their super instead . 
`` Prior to the change a lot of investor probably saw agribusiness a a good way of reduce their tax , '' he say . 

Oil price drop predict 
The price of oil be predict to drop by almost a third within the next five year . 
That be the forecast Angus Walker from charter accountant Ernst and Young deliver to an oil conference in Perth yesterday . 
He say while the US economy be slow down due to lower domestic spending , it be be balance out by the expand economy of China and India . 
Mr Walker say that will hold oil price firm in the short term , before the market corrects . 
`` The Chinese be expect to increase their use of oil by 156 per cent by 2030 , it be the large increase of oil usage of any country in history , '' he say . 
`` In India , it 's go to increase it 's use of oil by around 124 per cent . 

Mine to give Tiwi Is job boost 
A new sand mine on the Tiwi Islands north of Darwin be set to boost employment for the local Aboriginal community . 
Matilda Minerals will produce 200,000 tonne of the heavy mineral concentrate , zircon-rutile over the next six year . 
Managing director Bruce Maluish say he want to reduce the environmental impact of mine an island in the Torres Strait . 
`` The sand average about 4 per cent heavy mineral , '' he say . 
`` The process involve mine the sand , process it , extract the 5 per cent of heavy mineral and put the sand back in the hole where it come from . 
`` So it 's a pretty benign impact and we can be mine through area quite quickly at low impact , and come back and rehabilitate the land quite smartly as well . '' 

Season 's first mango sell for $ 25,000 
Hundreds of greengrocer pack the Sydney Produce Markets this morning for the annual charity auction of the season 's first box of mango . 
The 12 mango , from Pine Creek Plantation in the Northern Territory , sell for $ 25,000 , with the money to be donate to the Westmead Children 's Hospital . 
The buyer , Fred Piscuineri , say the hospital will also need to get the kid ' cutlery out for a surprise dessert today . 
`` I think we 're go to go to the Westmead Hospital like we do two year ago and give them to those poor kid that be in the hospital , '' he say . 

Online date on the rise in region 
Yesterday we hear about a boom in online shopping in regional Australia , and it now seem that more country men and woman be find love on the web as well . 
Fiona Thomas run the online date site Rural Romeos , and say in the past 12 month there have be a 50 per cent increase in online dating . 
She say access to the Internet have reduce isolation , which in the past have cause loneliness and depression . 
`` They 're pretty fair dinkum about it , '' she say . 
`` Mainly in the marriage age bracket sort of from 25 but right up to 40 - 45 , that may have be marry and this be second time around . 

Song play for Makybe Diva to make beautiful music 
There be more than a touch of romance in the multi-million dollar thoroughbred breed season this year in the Hunter Valley . 
It be one of the region 's big season , with booking for nearly 100 proven stallion . 
Among them , have be the highly anticipated joining of Melbourne Cup champion Makybe Diva and the emerge stallion Gallileo . 
And , to add that special touch , Stud manager Peter O'Brien say owner Tony Santic ask for the Diva 's favourite song to get her in the mood . 
`` We have candle outside her stable , and we have Deborah Conway 's It 's Only the Beginning , be the song choose to bring the romantic side on . 
`` That be seemingly her song they use to play to her in the stable . 
`` And we have all her colour around her stable . 

WA grain grower look to the sky 
Grain grower in WA 's south-east who be generally enjoy a reasonable season say they be now in need of good rain to see crop finish well . 
Farmers from all over the agricultural region be gather in Newdegate 450 kilometre south east of Perth , for the town 's annual machinery field day . 
After flood sweep through the region in January , and a very late start , local farmer Trevor de Landgrafft say farmer be now rely heavily on rain in coming month . 
`` I think the October rain 's go to be the most important for the district , '' he say . 

River pumping allow in Bourke 
The New South Wales Government have allow horticultural irrigators in the outback community of Bourke to pump emergency water supply out of the dwindle Darling River . 
The Bourke region have be suffer drought condition for more than five year , and irrigators be battle to keep citrus tree , grape vine and hojoba plant alive . 
Phil Mansell from Back of Bourke Fruits say tough decision be be make about whether to let crop die , with no guarantee of future water flow . 
`` We have a grape crop there that we have to now make the decision , will we have the water to take that crop through into a harvest ? '' he say . 
`` It 's a further million dollar investment to do the work to grow that crop , and the easy thing to do be just to turn the water off a significantly large area of vine . 
`` But the financier be face a terrible dilemma , they be consider what do that do to the community , what do it do to job in town et cetera ? '' 

Feed grain user move to import 
The Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) have confirm that some feed grain user be look to import stock for the first time since 2002 . 
AQIS , which approve import permit , say it have have casual discussion with user , but no formal application have be lodge . 
Grain be import when Australia 's supply be low and domestic price be dear than international price . 
Elders general manager of grain , Phillip Pyle , say while price be not high enough to justify import yet , they have move up rapidly in the past month . 
`` Prices be up pretty dramatically , '' he say . 

NSW irrigators save from huge tax compo bill 
New South Wales irrigators who win a $ 100 million compensation package after lose access to ground water will no longer lose a big part of the money in tax . 
Fourteen hundred irrigators receive money to compensate them for a move to claim back over-allocated ground water resource . 
The Federal Government have treat the payment a income , and demand tax be pay . 
Prime Minister John Howard have now intervene , say the money be compensation and should not be tax . 
But Federal Member for Gwydir , John Anderson , admit not all payment will be tax-free . 
`` If it 's a pre-85 asset , which most of them would be , there 's no tax , '' he say . 

Govt work to clear 457 visa hold-ups 
The Federal Government say it be try to fix problem with the temporary skilled migration program , which have halt visa application since April . 
Under the 457 program , skilled worker be be import to fill labour shortage , particularly in the meat industry . 
But visa application have be hold up , after claim some sector of the industry have breach the term of the agreement . 
Immigration Minister , Senator Amanda Vanstone , say a new labour agreement be be put together , which will clearly define worker skill . 
`` What I think have be happen be people have be bring in people describe a slaughtermen and butcher and they have be do boning and slicing work which be inconsistent with the visa a it 's construct now , '' she say . 

RSPCA angry at piggery raid 
An animal right raid on a New South Wales piggery have meet with anger from the RSPCA . 
The piggery near Young be raid in July , where video footage of the raid be gather . 
The footage have only just be send to police , with allegation about animal cruelty surround sow pen . 
Chief executive of the New South Wales branch of the RSPCA , Bernie Murphy , say extremist should be stop from enter property . 
`` They go onto a property , they breach the biosecurity , they may visit great harm on the well-being of the animal plus of course they be have an impact on people 's livelihood . 
`` No one would tolerate someone invade someone 's house and this be similar to that in a business sense . 
`` These people believe because they have the moral high ground in their mind , they can go onto property , break the law , ignore it . 

Mine company order to pay former exec compo 
A Western Australian mining company have be order to pay more than $ 1.8 million to a former senior executive , after fail to disclose a nickel discovery . 
The Supreme Court of Western Australia yesterday award the money to Kim Riley , a former managing director and shareholder of Jubilee Mines . 
In late 1994 , rival company Western Mining Corporation tell Jubilee Mines it have inadvertently find the nickel deposit on Jubilee 's tenement in the northern goldfield . 
However Jubilee Mines do not publicly provide information of the find until two year later . 
In that time , Mr Riley sell his entire holding in the company . 
He say he would have be in a different position about sell the share if he have know about the discovery . 
`` I 've get mixed emotion , I be very relieved , '' he say . 
`` It be a stressful period for myself , also for my wife and child , I 'm glad that it 's over . '' 

Human error 'probable cause ' of GM canola mix-up 
Human error have be identify a the most likely cause of the genetically-modified contamination of conventional canola two year ago . 
Low level contamination of the commercially-grown 'grace ' variety be discover in 2005 during routine sampling of canola export . 
A trial of GM canola be conduct in Tasmania in 1998 , and a year later grace canola be grow on a separate site three kilometres away , but an investigation by the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator have find that be not how the contamination occur . 
Alex Schaap from Tasmania 's Department of Primary Industry say there be not enough evidence to provide a definite answer . 
`` The mystery still remain a to what the source of the contamination be , '' he say . 
`` The only hypothesis leave standing be some form of human error , perhaps something as simple a somebody not label seed bag correctly , and seed hence be mixed . '' 
The peak grain research body say it be continue negotiation to try to secure the commercial release of genetically modify crop . 
The Grains Research and Development Corporation be fund research into GM canola , which can not be release to farmer because of state-imposed ban on the technology . 
Chairman Terry Enright say the benefit of GM crop , such a disease tolerant wheat and barley , need to be prove . 
`` We 're positively work with industry and with government in a dialogue to make sure that we overcome these issue that be there , '' he say . 
`` And we 're hopeful in the long term that if crop become available and can be assess on a crop by crop basis , if they demonstrate benefit to the industry , that ultimately we 'll be able to grow them , if that be what be require . '' 
Meanwhile , Nufarm have buy the licence to develop and commercialise genetically-modified canola . 
The agribusiness company have pay $ 10 million for Monsanto 's Roundup Ready canola licence and germ plasm . 

Inland rail link inch forward 
The Federal Government say a new inland rail network link Brisbane and Melbourne will need to be build , to cope with grow freight demand on road and exist rail network . 
Transport Minister Warren Truss have release a 15-month study into the project , and say the far western sub-corridor be the top contender from four route name in the report . 
The project will cost more than $ 3 billion , and taxpayer will need to contribute two third . 
The Federal Government want the line to be in operation by 2019 . 
Minister Truss say there will be consultation on the best route , but one be a particular stand-out . 
`` Now that particular corridor would cost about 3.1 billion dollar to build and achieve a transit time of just under 21 hour , '' he say . 

Dairy industry pledge $ 15m to fight fund 
A new national Dairy Innovation Centre have be task with find way to compete with the grow soy milk market . 
Seven milk company have pledge $ 15 million to the centre , which will be base on Melbourne 's outskirt . 
Dairy farmer have also contribute , through the levy they pay to Dairy Australia . 
Chairman Andrew Donovan say the research into new milk product will help farmer . 
`` We 'll be look at protect their price , their milk price , we live in a very competitive environment both a a dairy industry but also dairy industry compete with other food product such a soy , and so this be really a protection strategy , '' he say . 

Govt under fire over delay in deliver horticulture conduct code 
Labor and the Greens have attack the Federal Government for delay in implement a code of conduct for the horticulture sector . 
It have be almost 700 day since the Coalition make an election promise to introduce a mandatory code to improve transparency between grower and wholesaler . 
A motion put forward yesterday by the Greens in the Senate , to clarify when the issue will be address , be narrowly defeat by the Coalition . 
Greens Senator Christine Milne say that be a clear sign the Government be try to renege on it promise . 
`` It 's an absolute disgrace that they be now try to find a way to make it some sort of ramble voluntary code , '' she say . 
`` The Greens believe that it should be a mandatory code , that 's why we move in the Senate to call on the Government to fulfil their election promise and what we 're see be delay until after the Queensland election and I can almost bet my bottom dollar that they will come out with some gobbledly-gook about some voluntary code next week . '' 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran be defend the delay . 
`` I realise there 's great anger grow amongst many who believe that the mandatory code of conduct would be automatically be introduce , we 're still work our way through all of the issue , '' he say . 

AWB in bid war to supply wheat to Indian company 
AWB be one of four company leave in a bidding war to supply 1.6 million tonne of mill wheat to the State Trading Company of India . 
Swiss-based company , Glencore , be know to have lodge the high tender , at 650,000 tonne , with AWB offer 630,000 tonne . 

US beef export get green light to South Korea 
South Korea have agree to readmit beef export from the US . 
Australia 's share of the market have grow by 120 per cent since US beef be ban in 2004 , and be now worth $ 600 million . 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) say the resumption of the American beef trade could cut the value of our export by more than 20 per cent . 
South Korea 's Agriculture Ministry have just announce that 36 US slaughterhouse designate to handle meat for export to South Korea meet require safety measure , clear the last hurdle to the resumption of import . 
MLA Korean manager , Glen Feist say the Americans have have a tough time convince the Koreans to accept meat with bone chip fragment . 
`` The protocol be no bone , but everybody know in our industry that from time to time you do get bone chip on the primal cut of beef through boning problem , especially in the big US plant , '' he say . 

Govt reject call to dump freight equalisation scheme 
The Federal Government have dismiss call to scrap Tasmania 's freight equalisation scheme . 
Under the scheme , Tasmanian producer receive a rebate on freight to offset the high cost of ship across Bass Straight . 
A draft report just release by the Productivity Commission say the scheme be too costly and should be phase out . 
But the Government say the program will stay , a move welcome by president of the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association , Roger Swan . 
`` I think the PM have put the matter to rest for now , but I think what we do see from this be that politician of all shape , size and colour understand that this be a vital issue for Tasmania 's industry and it 's an issue that we have to keep certainly our finger on , '' he say . 

US resumption of beef export to Japan slow than expect 
The US have only ship 100 tonne of beef to Japan , after regain access to the market a month ago . 

Australian dollar fall again amid low metal price 
The Australian dollar have fall for the fourth consecutive day on the back of low precious and base metal price . 
The price of gold have drop to around $ US616 an ounce , in the big drop in seven week and a far cry from the month of May when it be trade at $ US732 . 
The net effect be to drag down the Australian dollar , which be closely link to mineral commodity performance . 

CSR share plunge down by 10 pc 
Shares in Australia 's big sugar mill company have crash almost 10 per cent in a day , after a downgrade in it profit forecast . 
CSR Ltd produce 40 per cent of Australia 's sugar from seven mill in North Queensland . 
The company have tell the Australian Stock Exchange ( ASX ) that fall sugar price and a wet harvest have force it to reverse early prediction that earnings would be up 10 ten per cent . 

Canegrowers want mandatory levy to curb smut spread 
The Queensland Canegrowers organisation want a national mandatory grower levy to fund effort to stop the spread of sugarcane smut . 
The fungal disease be find almost three month ago near Childers , in Queensland 's south-east . 
Although a propose national cost-sharing plan have already be knock back , the sugar industry say it want a compulsory levy to raise about $ 9 million . 
But Joe Russo from Isis Canegrowers admits there be still a lot of work to be do . 
`` We 've get to now get New South Wales canegrowers to come on board , '' he say . 
`` They 've agree in principle , we 've get to get the Ord River - but the other thing we 've get to do be - the Federal Government now have get to put mechanism in place that we need to be able to strike this levy on all cane grow in the Australian sugar industry . '' 

Agriculture research process under scrutiny 
Pressure be on Australia 's agricultural research and development corporation ( RDCS ) to justify how they spend taxpayer dollar . 
The chair of 14 peak body have be meet in Canberra this week . 
Parliamentary secretary for Agriculture , Sussan Ley , want more collaboration between the agency , and a uniform way of assess whether their research work be up to scratch . 
`` I 'm wait for them to come back to me with that , but I certainly do n't want it to be a long process , '' she say . 
`` I want it to be an efficient process , I want it to be realistic and I want it to produce answer for people who have every right to ask the question , 'are we get value for money ? ' - it 's important to recognise that government be really a major stakeholder in the RDC 's . 

Drought-stricken farmer disappoint with Govt response 
Victorian farmer face water shortage say be disappoint with the State Government 's late plan to tackle the drought . 
Premier Steve Bracks will head up a task force to consider how to deal with the drought and lack of water , and have announce more funding for rural financial counselling service . 
Mallee farmer Claire Cook have have to sell most of her sheep , and say most of her crop have die . 
`` It 's a very political , very politician 's response , a in , 'we 'll have a look and we 'll have a discussion about it ' , '' she say . 
`` I be hop for something a bit more practical , a in some subsidy , maybe for some tank that we 're all go to have to buy in order for the water , hopefully that will be cart to u , or that we 'll cart ourselves . 

Wool broker raise concern about stock feed supply 
A Western Australian wool broker say talk of import feed into Australia for livestock have leave him wonder where it be go to come from . 
Desperate area of the state receive boost rain overnight , but there be still grow concern about how stock will be feed in the coming month . 
Trevor Pedlar from Primaries of WA say he have travel through much of the state recently and there be go to be a need to purchase feed to keep stock on farm . 
But he say the cost and availability of import feed will be an issue . 
`` Things be tough in a lot of area around the world , '' he say . 
`` Secondly would be the cost . Because you 're look at commodity price from the sheep industry at the moment , they 're not good . 

Top price ram sell for $ 21,000 
Despite ongoing dry condition , average price rise to around $ 3,700 at yesterday 's ram sale at the Royal Adelaide Show . 
The top price ram from the Nyowee Stud at Balaklava sell for $ 21,000 . 
Peter Meyer , who bring the ram in partnership with two others , say interest from South American buyer shore up the price . 
`` Prices pay in the past , many year ago , when the wool industry be boom and semen sale first start to come into vogue , probably over-valued some ram , '' he say . 

Vets lobby for mandatory attendance at outback rodeo 
Vets in the Northern Territory be call for their attendance to be mandatory at all outback rodeo . 
The call be prompt after a horse stumble and break it leg at an event earlier this year where a vet be not present . 
However some rodeo organiser , like Rod Haines of Pine Creek , say there be not enough vet and the cost would be prohibitive . 
`` The stock people up here that work these rodeo , work the stock every day and they know what be ill and what 's not ill and I think it 's up to their judgement to keep it that way , '' he say . 
`` They do n't want to put sick animal out there in front of the audience and it do n't make the sport look good . 
`` If you be go to have a vet at rodeo 's you would need a vet at every sport that involve animal and that include pigeon race , cane toad race , pony club , gymkhana 's , camp drafting . '' 
The Australian Veterinary Association have spend the last two year work on a rodeo policy that require the attendance of a vet . 
The Australian Professional Rodeo Association have a code of conduct that involve vet in rodeo a optional . 
The NCCAW have create a national rodeo code of practice to protect the welfare of animal . 

Farmer hop for prosthesis for three-legged cow 
You may have see a three-legged dog or even a three-legged cat , but what about a three-legged cow ? 
Tasmanian dairy farmer Geoff Heazlewood be devastate when he recently find one of his best cow have break her leg after fall in a river . 
It turn out amputation be the only option and he say while the be cow recover well , she could do with some extra help get around . 
`` I would dearly love to hear from somebody that be use to make prosthesis and we could perhaps put a prosthesis on her , '' he say . 

AWH renew Yennora lease 
The future of wool sale in Sydney look more secure , after a decision by Australian Wool Handlers to renew it lease on the Yennora selling centre . 
The new five-year agreement will take effect from July 2007 , with AWH to lease two third of the current space , include the auction room , administration office and the container handle area . 

Industry levy vote for dairy farmer 
Dairy Australia be call for farmer to increase their support for research and development when an industry levy be put to the vote early next year . 
Many farmer have voice disappointment with the performance of the peak industry body at recent meeting to discuss the levy . 
Dairy Australia 's John McKew say the organisation need to communicate good , but say it vital investment continue . 
`` I would suggest that some of the concern have be that there be probably a lack of understanding or appreciation from a large number of dairy farmer about where their dairy service levy be invest from Dairy Australia , '' he say . 

Gold milling resume at Pine Creek 
In resource news , gold be again be mill at Pine Creek in the Northern Territory , after three year . 
Blasting start today at the high grade , underground Brock 's Creek mine , but GBS Gold be already mill old stockpile to check the machinery . 
Operations manager Tom Heaton expect to initially process 1.5 million tonne of ore every year , recover 150,000 ounce of gold . 
`` The mainstay of this operation for 10 year be two main project , one of which be Maud Creek which be the refractory material , that have a life of around about ten year , '' he say . 

Cold front bring rain to north WA 
A series of cold front have bring good rain to much of Western Australia 's parched farming and pastoral region . 
Falls have even reach area of the Pilbara in the state 's north , not know to receive rain at this time of year . 
Further south in agricultural region , crop and pasture have be give a healthy boost with fall of between 10 and 30 millimetre over drought-affected area of the eastern and central wheatbelt . 
Mukinbudin farmer Chris Geraghty say the rain have be enough to bring some crop back to life and will improve pasture . 
`` Feed 's be pretty good early on because of the summer rain but the last few week , it 's start to go off a bit , '' he say . 

Grain harvest contractor urge drought assistance 
Contract grain harvester want the Federal Government to consider exceptional circumstance drought assistance a they go into another tough season . 
The Australian Grain Harvesters Association say some contractor have see their income drop by 50 per cent because of a run of reduced crop in recent year . 
Association president Peter Bradley say some member be offload machinery , while others have have equipment repossess . 
`` In the last five year in particular we 've be in drought in most state , '' he say . 
`` And in Western Australia , it 's the first time it 's face it bad drought , and there 's very little crop over there at all , and the machinery company and their finance company have be be very patient with pretty-much everybody for the last five year . 

Global warming faster than thought : ANU expert 
A leading climate change scientist say there be a high risk temperature be rise at a more rapid rate than expert predict five year ago . 
Will Steffen from the Australian National University say increase warming of the earth be prevent the land 's natural absorption of carbon and that be enhance the problem . 
He say the last major international climate outlook paper predict temperature would rise by between 2 and 2.5 degree by the end of the century . 

Timber industry oppose tax break change 
The timber industry want the Federal Government to reject the late push to scale back tax break for manage investment scheme . 
Assistant Treasurer Peter Dutton be believe to be push for a cap on tax deduction for investor in timber plantation . 
Currently investor in the forestry sector receive a 100 per cent tax deduction , available during the first year they contribute . 
Andrew White from Forest Enterprises Australia say the industry oppose any change . 
`` If it fall within the general framework that we 're aware of I do n't think there will be any surprise , '' he say . 

Agforce chief express Qld vote concern 
Queensland 's rural leader have express disappointment with the Beattie Government 's big win at the weekend 's state election . 
Despite the double crisis confront Queensland 's health system and water supply , Peter Beattie have win 59 seat , a huge majority of 33 in the 89-member Parliament . 
The blood-letting be under way in the Opposition party , with National Party leader Lawrence Springborg possibly to be replace by his deputy Jeff Seeney . 
Afgorce CEO Brett de Hayr say many people in the rural sector would have like to have see a more balanced Parliament elect . 
`` It just show that people probably think Labor be the less bad option on the day , '' he say . 
`` I do n't think there be any resounding sign of support for anyone in this campaign . '' 

S Korea lift US beef ban 
The US beef industry be hop to make big inroad into South Korea , in the wake of a decision to lift a two-and-a-half year export ban . 
Meat and Livestock Australia have already warn that the value of Australian beef export could fall by up to 20 per cent . 
While struggle to regain market share in Japan , the National Cattlemen 's Beef Association ( NCBA ) expect an easy time in Korea . 
NCBA trade adviser Greg Doud call Korea a `` very different situation '' to Japan , which turn largely to Australian beef after mad cow disease be first find in the US . 
`` Korea have over a year 's worth of US beef in frozen storage , after December the 23rd , 2003 , '' he say . 
`` And they keep right on move through that product . 
`` What we 've consistently hear in Korea , be the fact that , once those restaurant and retailer run out of US beef , they be clamour for the stuff . '' 

Demand grow for environmentally friendly export meat 
Pressure be grow for sheep farmer to demonstrate their green credential , particularly to export market . 
New research in the lamb industry have find demand for environmentally friendly meat be high overseas than locally . 
Sheepmeat researcher with the Department of Primary Industries in Victoria , Nick Linden , say survey find a grow number of shopper want to know whether a farm be environmentally accredit . 
`` We certainly have a strong response that there be more market opportunity at the moment today in the export market than there be in the domestic market , '' he say . 

PETA take live export fight to Middle East 
The animal right group , People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ( PETA ) , be targetting Middle Eastern consumer in it late campaign against Australia 's live export trade . 
The US-based group be pay for newspaper advertisement in Jordan , Kuwait and member nation of the United Arab Emirates , highlight condition on board ship use to transport sheep to the region . 
PETA spokeswoman Maya Linden say the group want to pressure the Australian Government to stop the trade , and hop to influence lamb consumer in the Middle East a well . 
`` More and more Muslims be tell u that these thing that be happen to the sheep be not only horribly cruel , but they also violate Islamic principle and be not Halal , '' she say . 

Fruit , veg code of conduct plan reveal 
The Federal Government have unveil plan for a voluntary code of conduct for the fruit and vegetable industry . 
Growers want a mandatory code , which be originally promise by the Government before the last election . 
The Government say the new code will be legally enforceable , and provide transparency to grower . 
But John Roach from grower group Ausveg , be disappoint . 
`` I think the underpinning side of all this be good business practice and one of the thing about the mandatory code , a originally propose , be that it would be about good business practice , '' he say . 
`` Any water down of that be a concern , however if this be the way forward then we give it a damn good shot , a an outcome , hopefully other people will bring the same goodwill to the table . '' 
Growers and wholesaler will meet later this week to begin work on the code , with a draft expect by November . 
But Federal Industry Minister , Ian Macfarlane , say a mandatory code would have be too onerous . 

Iron ore ship run aground in Port Hedland 
An iron ore ship have run aground at Australia 's large tonnage port at Port Hedland in WA 's Pilbara region . 
The 290-metre long vessel `` Creciente '' ran aground after break it mooring while load ore in the early hour of this morning . 
Port Hedland resident Vic Watson say tidal condition be create problem for the full carrier . 
`` It be like a big bang wake u up , like someone belt a big empty drum with a sledge hammer , '' he say . 
`` And then there be lot of push and pull with tug and then the next thing they actually pull the ship back probably three of four hundred metre into the harbour . 
`` Then the next thing they bring it back out to where it be now where it 's stop . 

Top WA property 'Grange ' change hand 
One of Western Australia 's top property have be sell for between $ 20 million and $ 30 million . 
The 10,000 acre Grange , at Dongara on the west coast , date back to 1853 , and be most recently own by the late construction giant John Roberts and his family . 
Real estate agent Stephen Vaughan say there be big interest in the merino sheep stud , which be eventually sell to the Stoney family , which have extensive holding elsewhere in the state . 
`` It certainly go somewhere between 20 and 30 million , '' he say . 
`` We 're deal with a property that 's fairly special and in Western Australian term it 's probably up there in the top 10 per cent of general farming . 

Indigenous ranger push for sea right 
A push for Indigenous sea right be grow in the Northern Territory . 
Charged with care for their traditional land , some Indigenous ranger group be now ask for authority over their saltwater country . 
Grace Daniels be with the Ngukurr Rangers near the Gulf of Carpentaria and say they want the right to stop over-fishing and illegal fishing . 
`` We know our land more than the European , '' he say . 
`` We know what 's in the sea and what 's in the land . It 's very hard for u to make people understand that 's our land . 

Tas restaurateurs struggle to buy local fish 
Tasmanian restaurant be find it hard to buy local fish , with high operating cost force vessel out of the industry . 
Fishermen be now choose to sell the small catch to mainland market at a premium price , rather than supply local restaurant . 
And with more fisherman prepare to leave the sector under a Federal Government licence buy-back , Will Mure from Mure 's Fishing in Hobart say the trend will continue . 
`` I guess it 's just coming term with the fact that the fishing industry be go through some fairly serious change right now and that the price of local quality produce , you 'll have to pay a premium price for it , '' he say . 

Dollar strength threaten asparagus viability 
The high Australian dollar be threaten to force even more asparagus grower out of business this harvest . 
Asparagus be sell into the key Japanese market in yen , mean that a the value of the Australian dollar strengthens , grower be get less and less money for the same amount of produce . 
Sean Lembrey from Australia 's large asparagus exporter Momack Produce say an asparagus glut here in Australia be not out of the question . 
`` At the moment it 's profitable right now but we be at the very beginning of our season , '' he say . 

Dry condition prompt early fire work 
Forestry company in South Australia have start fire prevention work nearly a month early , due to the dry condition . 
Forestry SA , which manage around 130 hectare of softwood plantation and native forest , have begin work on firebreak , clear internal track and trained extra crew . 
Spokesman Rick Underdown say the potential for bush fire be extremely high , especially in the native forest . 
`` We be particularly worry about that because low rainfall mean that the soil be still relatively dry and the fuel in the native forest , that 's the litter on the ground and the dead matter just above that , dry out at the same rate a the soil , '' he say . 

Bushfires damage NT mango crop 
Bushfires have damage almost ripe mango on up to 10 orchard near Darwin , in the Northern Territory . 
More than 50 volunteer have be battle the fire across 30 square kilometre in the Darwin River area , south of the territory capital . 
With the mango harvest only a few week away , senior fire control officer Andrew Turner say the property loss could have be prevent . 
`` Fire have cover about 110 block to date , many of them have n't have any sort of fire planning put in place at all , '' he say . 
`` With the grass , they really need to be manage and many of the land holder out there be n't manage sufficiently . 
`` Hopefully this event and the coverage that it have get will encourage people to do the right thing and ensure they have a good and solid plan . 
`` Certainly there be slash and mow that can certainly carry on . '' 

Water policy 'ignores climate change ' 
A Senate committee say current government policy to regulate water have not consider the impact of climate change on future water availability . 
The Rural Affairs Committee be investigate how Australia account for it water use and allocation . 
Its interim report say change rainfall and temperature be not reflect in policy initiative . 
Committee chair , Greens Senator Rachel Siewert , say submission to the inquiry show alarm trend . 
`` It appear to u that the impact of climate change on rainfall and subsequent water supply have not be adequately account for , '' she say . 

Beef industry worry at US 'grain-fed ' labelling plan 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) be worry at US plan to allow beef from cattle that have spend time in feedlot and eat grain , to be label `` grass-fed '' . 
MLA regional manager Michelle Gorman say Australia pride itself on be a leader in grass-fed beef . 
Ms Gorman say USDA must remember the consumer when it rewrite the rule on grass-fed labelling . 
`` There be people that be interested in how the animal have be raise ... and we have many other product category here , whether it 's natural , organic , grain-fed , '' she say . 
`` It 's just another product in the range and there need to be some accuracy in the type , how the product be and then , how it 's label . '' 
Ms Gorman say sale of Australian beef cut in North America be grow month on month , and the grass-fed label be work . 

Commodities boom 'going strong ' despite price 
The price of oil have hit a five-month low , and gold have tumble below $ US600 an ounce , but one market analyst reject claim the commodity boom be almost over . 
Rob Brierly from broking firm Hartleys say commodity price have experience month of volatility , and the current dramatic drop in price be be drive by speculator . 
The low price have drag down the Australian sharemarket by 46 point , but Mr Brierly be confident that a correction be just around the corner . 
`` We might see a couple more day of weakness , or even a week of weakness but I 'm sure it will turn around because the fundamental be still very strong , '' he say . 
`` Inventories be very low for most commodity , there 's not a lot of new project come on stream in the near term and demand from place like China be still very , very strong . '' 

Coalition party at odds on fruit , veg code 
The Federal Liberal and National party appear to be on a collision course over the propose code of conduct for the fruit and vegetable industry . 
Designed to give grower more transparency when sell their produce , Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane say the code will not be mandatory . 
But Nationals Senator Ron Boswell have tell reporter Shelley Lloyd that a mandatory version remain on the table , a originally promise before the 2004 election . 
`` It be an election commitment that I campaign on , it be an election commitment that be in an official policy document , '' he say . 
`` I 'm say , a mandatory code be a commitment that we give at the election and that 's a commitment they expect to be honour . '' 
A spokeswoman for Minister Macfarlane say the code will be enforceable , and deliver the same benefit , without cost million of dollar require to implement a mandatory system . 
She say a mandatory code be not Coalition policy at the last election . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say it will walk away from this week 's talk on develop the new code , if it requirement be not meet . 
Growers and wholesaler will meet in Canberra on Thursday to thrash out the detail . 
NFF vice-president Charles Burke say the code need to force wholesaler to provide more information to grower during price negotiation , improve contract , and include a dispute resolution process . 
`` What guarantee do we have a producer that this process be go to lead to an outcome ? '' he say . 
`` Because we 've just participate in the one that do n't . 

Hi-tech quarantine lab set up in Darwin 
Suspect plant disease and insect gather across northern Australia and Asia will now be check in new secure hi-tech laboratory in Darwin . 
More than $ 3 million have be spend create the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service 's new headquarters . 
Plant pathologist Jane Ray say the upgrade include filter system to ensure that no material escape or hitchhikes on staff . 
`` This facility be specifically design to handle pathogen of quarantine concern like citrus canker for example , '' she say . 
`` Citrus canker could be work on in the bio-hazard cabinet , which would enable the pathogen to be contain within the cabinet . 
`` The negative pressure and the procedure and protocol in place would prevent the escape of this pathogen . 
`` We could actually diagnose it here , rapidly and move for eradication , rather than actually delay diagnosis as well . '' 
Another hi-tech quarantine lab be due to be construct in Cairns , North Queensland . 

Dorper sheep sale set record price 
Sheep that can produce both wool and meat be become increasingly popular , with a South Australian dorper ram fetch the top price of $ 41,000 at the breed 's national sale yesterday . 
That be a long way above the top price of $ 18,000 pay for a merino ram at a major sale just week ago . 
Buyers and seller from WA , South Australia and Queensland attend the sale at Dubbo , in central western New South Wales , and Paul Jamieson from Elders say there be an almost 100 per cent clearance rate for the 120 ram offer . 

Lindemans to include foreign wine 
The Foster 's Group say it will sell South African and Chilean wine under it Lindemans brand , which have traditionally be exclusively Australian . 
The beverage giant say it be a result of research in key export market , which show shopper buy wine because it be good value for money , rather than it origin . 
But some in the local industry say the Foster 's research undermine effort be make to market wine under the `` Wine Australia '' banner . 
Mike Stone from Murray Valley Winegrowers say the move should serve a a warning for wine grape producer . 
`` How long before we have major Australian wine company simply buy grape from the cheap source ? '' he say . 
`` Does it mean that even in a few year ' time that Australian wine grape grower will be in competition with grower from other country ? 

Farmers threaten legal action over SA pulp mill plan 
Local farmer be threatening legal action to halt the development of a pulp mill near Penola in South Australia . 
The $ 650 million mill win conditional approval yesterday , but still need final Federal Government consent . 
But the local landholder opposition group , the No Pulp Mill Alliance , say the development will lower water table and increase air pollution . 
Spokesman Duan Butler say the group be prepare for a fight . 
`` We 've be say all along that we would go as far a we have to go , '' he say . 

Grain trader question AWB pricing 
The late world crop forecast out of the US have local grain trader question why exporter AWB be not offer Australian wheat grower a lot more for their grain this season . 
While there be little change to the North American crop outlook , the United States Department of Agriculture have downgrade it estimate of Australia 's wheat crop to 19.5 million tonne . 
With supply tighter , and improve overseas grain price , commodity trader Tony Smith say grower want to know why AWB be not offer high national pool price . 
`` We do n't think the AWB 's do the wrong thing if they 're be conservative , by any stretch of the imagination , but I think there 's a lot of grower out there now think , well do I put it in the pool , I 'm go to have some real cash flow problem this year , or do I sell for cash ? '' he say . 
`` They probably just need to be give a little bit more information than they normally would . 
`` If the AWB be be conservative by five or so buck a tonne , then grower wo n't have a problem with that . But I think they just need to come out and say it . '' 

Murray irrigators face water price hike 
River Murray irrigators in South Australia be pay up to four time more for water , a the dry condition continue across the Murray Darling Basin . 
Temporary water price have reach an average of $ 165 a megalitre this month - that 's an increase from $ 44 a megalitre record this time last year . 
These price have not be see since restriction be first impose in South Australia four year ago . 
Low commodity price and dry condition have also see irrigators sell their water entitlement earlier than usual . 

Farmers back Wimmera water decision 
Farmers have welcome a decision by the Victorian Government to halt environmental flow down river in the Wimmera region . 
With water storage at critical level , the government say the water earmark for the environment will be reserve for emergency include fire fighting . 
Colin Coates from the Victorian Farmers Federation 's Drought Committee , 
be worry about how quickly fire brigade will be able to get hold of it . 
`` It 's a long way on a hot northerly day to cart water out this area , so that be a big concern , '' he say . 

Pacific seasonal worker move criticise 
A new report condemn the push to import worker from the Pacific to fill seasonal labour shortage . 
The think tank Centre for Independent Studies say migration would delay the Pacific region 's attempt to address it economic problem . 
Instead it want welfare change , to encourage Aboriginals and the long-term unemployed into the workforce . 
Milton James from Cape York Partnerships employ Aboriginal people from the region to pick fruit along the Murray River . 
He support the idea , but say it be not a quick fix solution . 

Analysts downplay mine share price 'correction ' 
With share in major mining company continue to nosedive , some analyst say the stock market be witness an overdue correction . 
Prices for metal include copper , iron ore , nickel and zinc have dramatically fall in recent day , drag down share in company like BHP , Rio Tinto , Woodside and Zinifex . 
Stocks analyst Peter Stracken say the weaken US economy be partly to blame , but market sentiment be also settle to a much more sustainable level . 
Mr Stracken say while miner be be hit with high production cost , their stock be fundamentally sound . 
`` It have be pretty well a free-fall when you get Zinifex fall 10 per cent yesterday in one day , '' he say . 
`` You know , when you look at the long term share price chart , BHP have come from like , $ 12 or $ 18 to $ 30 , so now it 's back at $ 26 . 
`` If you buy in the last 6 month or so you 're not look so good but if you buy 3 year ago you 're still go to double your money . '' 
Meanwhile new figure from the Bureau of Statistics show export earnings from the mineral energy sector jump 32 per cent during 2005-06 to a record $ 90.5 billion . 

Veg industry outline growth plan 
The vegetable industry will aim to double the value of it fresh , processed and package vegetable by 2020 . 
A strategic plan for the industry have be launch this morning in Canberra , just over a year after farmer rally on the lawn of Parliament House to complain about the impact of cheap import on their farm business . 
Tasmanian farmer and campaigner Richard Bovill say the plan aim to improve communication between everyone in the supply chain , from grower to consumer . 
`` In the past we 've focus on fix up problem , '' he say . 
`` This strategic plan look to opportunity and look to invest in create opportunity . We have to grow the business . 

Alice local encourage to pull weed for fitness 
A new sport body in Alice Springs want to help people become fit by help the environment . 
Enviro Sports Australia will try to encourage people to pull weed for exercise . 
President Adrian James say although it be an unusual combination , everyone be a winner . 
`` One event I 'd like to get start in the not too distant future be something in some of the land around Alice , probably in the Todd River , in section that be heavily infest with environmental weed , '' he say . 

Wholesalers promise to fight mandatory fruit , veg code 
Fruit and vegetable wholesaler say they will take legal action if force to sign up to a mandatory code of conduct for the horticulture sector . 
Prime Minister John Howard have now flag the possibility of make the code mandatory , after fierce opposition from the Nationals and farmer to a propose voluntary code . 
Grower group and market representative will meet in Canberra tomorrow to debate the proposal . 
But spokesman for the Central Markets Association , Andrew Young , say wholesaler will not be force into a mandatory system . 
`` The wholesaling sector have continue to take the position that they would n't support a mandatory code , and in fact have question whether it would be able to be lawfully impose upon just one sector of the industry , '' he say . 

Whey extract to help cancer patient 
A South Australian company have develop a method of use milk to relieve the side-effects of cancer treatment . 
An extract from whey , a by-product of cheese-making , have be identify a a potential mouthwash treatment for mouth ulcer which affect around 40 per cent of cancer patient . 
Dr Leanna Read from Adelaide-based TGR BioSciences say the product be close to be available for cancer patient . 
`` We 've just enter what 's call a phase two clinical trial and that 's an important clinical trial which actually will we hope give u definitive evidence that this material really do work , '' she say . 
`` We may not require any further clinical trial after that to take it to market . 

Victoria join MIS tax fight 
The Victorian Government have join the fight to save tax incentive for manage investment scheme ( MIS ) . 
The Federal Government be consider a crack down on the tax break , which allow investor to claim 100 per cent tax relief from project like timber plantation development . 
Victorian Regional Development Minister John Brumby say the Federal Government need to consult with stakeholder and clearly outline the propose change before push through new legislation . 
`` We 've see something like $ 321 million invest in Victoria over the past four year , '' he say . 

AWB reject grain analyst ' price claim 
Wheat exporter AWB have reject claim price be offer to grower for their wheat be not high enough . 
Grain analyst believe national pool price should be at least $ 10 dollar a tonne high because of strong global price and small crop forecast . 
But AWB pool manager David Johnson say return be at a fair level . 
`` They 're not so low , we believe . I mean obviously the pool return at this point in time be forecast price out to 2007 , '' he say . 
`` We have n't change our pricing methodology at all , we be price a we normally do . 
`` We be always vigilant in try to make our pool return a relevant to the market place a possible . '' 

Drought impact 
Meanwhile a the grain industry struggle to produce a winter cereal crop , new data show the impact the drought have have on the value of agricultural commodity . 
The Bureau of Statistics have release it farm commodity figure for 2004-05 , which show a $ 1.4 billion fall in the value of agriculture . 
Analyst Nigel Gibson say they show that a drop in production and price for winter grain be a key contributor . 
`` The main cause of that be the drop in the value of crop , which fell by 13 per cent to $ 17.8 billion , '' he say . 

Lower cotton production forecast 
The United States Department of Agriculture be predict high demand and low production of cotton around the world over the next 12 month . 
That could result in good price for Australian cotton grower , with global stock forecast to be down 1.5 million bale by the end of July next year . 
Australian farmer be about to start plant their next crop , but Cliff White from Queensland Cotton say they still need to be cautious . 
`` [ The ] next few week be relatively crucial a the northern hemisphere crop come off , '' he say . 
`` The big player of the US , China , and India ... what happen there will very much determine how the price go , but with the number that we have just go through , that draw down in stock , there be a little bit more potential than we have see in the last marketing year . '' 

Wheat virus spread 
The destructive wheat streak mosaic virus be rapidly spread across Western Australia . 
Western Australia 's Department of Agriculture ban wheat import from the eastern state earlier this year to try to stop the disease enter the state . 
That ban be lift when it be discover after the virus be find in a commercial crop . 
Department spokesman Roger Jones say for the first time , the virus be now be find in crop across the wheatbelt . 
`` It be a very serious disease if there 's widespread infection with the virus in young plant , young wheat plant , '' he say . 

Gwydir to disappear in boundary redistribution 
A big campaign in New South Wales to stop the abolition of the federal seat of Gwydir have fail . 
The seat , currently hold by former deputy prime minister John Anderson , will disappear at the next election under the late boundary redistribution . 
Queensland will gain a seat due to a population drift across the border . 
Federal Member for Parkes John Cobb say his seat will be a more manageable size , but it will be hard for the MPs in the much big seat of Calare and Farrer to service their community . 
`` They 've put Tibooburra virtually in the same state a one that run almost to the south coast or Mt Kosciuszko , '' he say . 
`` It be a little puzzling . The far west of New South Wales and Gwydir have be disenfranchise . 

Sunbeam Foods recall product 
Australia 's large producer of dried fruit , Sunbeam Foods , have begin a voluntary recall of 12 product . 
The company be investigate how metal make it way into a packet of date manufacture at the Angaston factory in South Australia . 

China buy into future uranium mine 
Just month after sign an export agreement with the Australian Government , China have buy into a future uranium mine in South Australia . 
The Crocker-Well uranium field , 100 kilometre west of Broken Hill , will be develop and operate by the state-owned Sinosteel Corporation , and Australian exploration company PepinNini . 
Sinosteel will pump $ 30 million into the project , which could mean the development of a fifth uranium mine in South Australia . 
The joint venture be yet to be approve by the Foreign Investment Review Board , but PepinNini director Rebecca Holland-Kennedy say the company expect to get the go ahead . 

Talks aim at resolve horticultural industry code of conduct dispute 
Talks be under way in Canberra between grower and wholesaler aim at resolve the bitter dispute over a code of conduct for the horticultural industry . 
Prime Minister John Howard have agree to a mandatory system , if a voluntary proposal put up by the Government at today 's meeting be reject . 
The key sticking point involve a clear definition of who be an agent and who be a wholesaler , enforceable transparent contract and a dispute resolution process . 

Dry winter force record yarding 
The dry seasonal condition be force record number of sheep and lamb onto the market in southern New South Wales . 
More than 60,000 head be be offload in Wagga today . 
The Wagga saleyards be burst at the seam with a record yarding of almost 40,000 lamb and more than 20,000 sheep . 
President of the Wagga Livestock Selling Association Peter Cabot say it have be a dry winter and unless it rain soon the sell off will continue . 
`` We 're see a lot of the pasture die and people be now realise they 've get six month of summer and they 're probably look at March or April to fee sheep . 

Wool supporter confident about market campaign 
The backer of a new $ 8 million campaign to market Australian wool in the US say they be confident it will not be hijack by animal right group . 
A lucrative deal between Italian fashion house Benetton and Australian Wool Innovation collapse six week ago , with some lay the blame on animal welfare protest against mulesing . 
The campaign be launch today will test how effectively fine wool can be market to woman through New York fashion label Saks Fifth Avenue . 
Brenda McGahan from Australian Wool Services say they have address the retailer 's concern about mulesing and be confident it will not pull out . 
`` That 's a very difficult question , '' he say . 

NT boy elect to UN board 
A young Northern Territory boy from a town of a few hundred people have be elect to a board of the United Nations . 
Bradley Lewis , 10 , from Mataranka have be make the Asia Pacific representative on the UN 's Environment Program Junior Board . 
Now responsible for organise the 2008 child 's conference in Norway , Bradley say his Aussie attire help him to get notice before the election , hold at the International Children 's Conference for the Environment in Malaysia . 
`` We do n't have to run a campaign but everyone just go around give name card out and present and that 's exactly what I do , '' he say . 
`` We give out Australian flag and little knick-knacks . 

Three-legged Tasmanian cow to get prosthetic leg 
Tasmania 's now famous three-legged dairy cow , Theresa , look like become the first in Australia to have a prosthetic leg . 
The heifer have one of her back legs amputate after fall down an embankment and be a valuable asset , owner Geoff Heazlewood want to keep her . 
He say the response to his call for help have be overwhelm and work have begin on a new prosthetic leg . 
`` There seem to be a lot of people interested in her welfare , '' he say . 

Farmers ' old equipment to help woman in Congo 
Farmers be be ask to donate old tractor and other farm machinery to help woman in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . 
Civil war have cut off access to food for many people , with large number of woman and child suffer malnutrition . 
Melbourne-based appeal coordinator Polydor Mutombo say church group will distribute the farm equipment to co-operatives of woman , to grow maize , potato and bean . 
Mr Mutombo say farming will allow the woman to become self-sufficient , something money and food donation can not achieve . 
`` Mostly the woman be look for food to fee their family , '' he say . 
`` They be the most affected by this war because there be kill mostly of men or men be go into the army . 
`` And it 's go to help them to look to other thing like if they produce that food they can sell , they can pay for school for child . 

Young farmer forum focus on biofuel 
Up to 150 young farmer be in the southern Queensland town of Goondiwindi today to discuss their role in the future of agriculture , especially in biofuel . 
With three propose grain-derived ethanol plant plan for the Darling Downs , young farmer gather here today want to know how they can benefit . 

Top ag commodity forecaster wrap up after 18 year 
Today mark the last day on the job for the head of the nation 's peak commodity forecaster . 
Brian Fisher have be director of the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics since 1988 . 
He admit it have not be an easy job to forecast the vagary of Australian agriculture , but say it have be important to give farmer the most up-to-date information available . 
`` The fact need to be on the table - sometimes there be more or less diplomatic way of get them on the table , but in the final analysis farmer need to know the fact , '' he say . 

Wool market remain steady 
The wool market continue fairly constant this week , with the benchmark eastern market indicator closing at 753 cent a kilogram , down just two cent . 
The bright spot come at the Melbourne sale , with superfine 16.5 and 17 micron wool gain up to 20 cent a kilogram . 

Summerfruit slash board number 
The peak research , development and marketing body for summer fruit grower will cut the size of it board from 21 to 11 . 
The move by Summerfruit Australia be an attempt to cut cost . 
Chairman Ian McAllister say the organisation 's finance be low because grower levy have not increase since 1997 . 

Graziers ask to keep stock off remnant native bush 
The dry condition and high cost of feed livestock have prompt call for livestock producer to resist the temptation to graze sheep and cattle on remnant native bush . 
Tim Jury from the South Australian Nature Conservation Society say even a little grazing can do substantial damage . 
While sympathise with drought-affected farmer , he be ask them to consider the long term picture . 
`` Dry time be tough on everyone financially and a lack of green feed be no doubt the reason why primary producer will put stock in native vegetation remnant , '' he say . 

Desalination plan prompt environmental concern 
Marine biologist have concern about a plan by mine company BHP Billiton to build a water desalination plant near Whyalla on the Spencer Gulf in South Australia . 
The plant would turn seawater into around 120 megalitres of fresh water a day . 
But Marine Science Centre spokesman Toby Bolton at Port Lincoln say it could have a major impact on the marine environment . 
`` This proposal be to pump 320 megalitres of water a day from the northern Spencer Gulf and return about 200 megalitres of water to the gulf , '' he say . 

Caution urge over fruit fly outbreak 
Victorian agriculture authority be urge resident in the state 's north-east to be careful handle fruit in the wake of the fruit fly outbreak just over the border . 
The Department of Primary Industries have discover the pest in the New South Wales border town of Mulwala . 
Spokesman Bill Aschroft say fruit can not be take out of a 15 kilometre quarantine zone and measure be in place to contain the outbreak . 
`` People need to be aware that in all of these town and in fact right across north-eastern Victoria and the corresponding area on the north of the river , that they should n't be move fruit around because there be a risk that fruit fly will be in the fruit or associate with it , '' he say . 

Locust plague predict for WA 
Just when Western Australian farmer think this season could not get any bad , authority be worry about a locust plague . 
Locust hatching have be detect in 36 shire in the northern agricultural region . 
The Department of Agriculture say rainfall last week will help them to thrive . 
Entomologist Kevin Walden say a large locust outbreak would have a devastating effect on production in the west this year . 
`` If the outbreak be as big a what we 've predict , then it 's go to be over a large proportion , '' he say . 
`` Even the hopper can eat approximately it own body weight per day in vegetation . 
`` And give when you get hopper band that go across paddock , basically they 'll almost clean the paddock out of all vegetation that 's there . '' 

Landmark to slash 50 job 
One of Australia 's large wool broker and rural service company , Landmark , be to axe 50 job across Australia a drought condition and water shortage bite far into the bottom line of agribusiness . 
Its parent company , AWB , be also review cost . 
Landmark say 50 staff will lose their job across it office in Victoria , New South Wales , Queensland and Western Australia . 
Company spokesman Peter McBride say a high-cost base and the tough seasonal outlook have force the company to cut 2.5 per cent of it work force , include back office and shop staff . 
`` While grain , sheep and livestock be affect , merchandise , fertiliser be also affect , '' he say . 
`` Landmark be still a very strong rural business that from time to time , just like any other business , we have to make some tough decision . '' 

Plant closure wo n't affect pig producer : KR Castlemaine 
Smallgoods manufacturer KR Castlemaine have tell Queensland pig producer it will still need their pork , despite announce the closure of it Toowoomba processing plant . 
The company 's adjoin abattoir will be sell . 
A total of 350 worker will be affect when processing be relocate to the company 's Victorian base . 
KR Castlemaine president Mike Adams have promise to help those who be willing to move south . 
He say the company will continue to slaughter up to 8,000 pig from Queensland producer and transport them to Victoria for processing . 
`` We be face with the decision of have one modern factory in Castlemaine and one very old factory in Toowoomba and it just do not make economic sense to try and run two plant , '' he say . 
`` We 'll continue purchase pig in Queensland now and into the future . 

Growers , farmer reject code of conduct 
Peak vegetable grower group AUSVEG and the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) have reject the Federal Government 's proposed voluntary code of conduct for the horticulture sector . 
Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane outline the proposal to provide more transparency to the way grower sell their produce during a day-long meeting in Canberra yesterday . 
But question be now be ask about the number of grower representative who be from Queensland . 
Apart from the NFF , AUSVEG and the Horticulture Council , the four other grower delegate all represent Queensland business interest . 
National party Senator Ron Boswell , who have be a staunch supporter of a mandatory code for grower , believe other state be represent . 

Defeated Mexican candidate declare 'president ' 
Tens of thousand of supporter of Mexico 's defeat presidential candidate have declare him the president of a parallel government . 
Supporters of Andres Manuel Lopes Obrador make the symbolic gesture at a huge rally in the main square of Mexico City . 
The protester be also plan to hold a swearing-in ceremony for Mr Obrador in November , just day before the inauguration of the country 's official new president , Felipe Calderon . 
Last week , Mexico 's high electoral court declare Mr Calderon , the conservative candidate , have win the election . 
Mr Obrador say the size of today 's protest show that support for his peaceful uprising be not wan . 
The rally come on independence day , after seven week of peaceful protest against the election result . 

Australian Wool Innovation CEO quits 
The head of Australian Wool Innovation have quit and will leave the company by the end of the year . 
The peak research and development body be in the process of merge with marketing company , Australian Wool Services . 
Chief executive Len Stephens say he come to an agreement with the board to leave after be inform a new CEO would be appoint for the merge company . 

Japan reject Australian buckwheat shipment 
A shipment of Australian buckwheat have be reject in Japan due to contamination concern . 
Authorities say the consignment contain three time the maximum residue level allow for an organophospate insecticide . 
Japan have tighten it restriction on chemical residue and Geoff Brown from Buckwheat Enterprises say all future grain import could be affect . 
`` The concern I have be that normal farming practice can still produce chemical residue that be three time in excess of what the Japanese MLR 's be for certain chemical , '' he say . 
`` I really think it be an issue that need to be address . 

APVMA considers deregistration of Short Chain Ester chemical 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority ( APVMA ) will announce later this week whether it plan to deregister Short Chain Ester chemical . 
The chemical be use by farmer to control summer weed , but in the past spray drift have cause damage to horticulture crop . 
It be believe the authority will ban their use from May 1 until August 31 each year , but Geoff Kendell from the Victorian Farmers Federation say a nationwide ban would be disappointing . 
`` Their modelling that they use be US base , they do n't look at the Australian environment and climate , '' he say . 
`` They certainly have n't take into consideration methodology that we use and the advanced new technique that in many case be world lead . 

Business sector blame government for water crisis 
The Australian business sector have criticise the state and federal government for not do enough to solve the nation 's water woe . 
The Business Council of Australia have release a paper which criticise the time it be take to implement the National Water Initiative , to establish a national water trading system . 
Director of policy Maria Tarrant say delay be cost the Australian economy billion of dollar . 
`` The Business Council 's report really identify that Australia 's water supply system be break and need to be fix , '' she say . 

Seeney vow to fight Mary River dam construction 
The new leader of the Queensland Nationals say he be determine to fight the construction of the controversial Mary River dam in the state 's south-east . 
Former deputy Jeff Seeney will take over from Lawrence Springborg in the wake of the Coalition 's disastrous showing at the recent state election . 
He say water policy be a key area of difference between the Coalition and the Government . 
`` The answer be to build the dam where the Government have plan to build them for many year and where successive government have acquire the land , '' he say . 
`` The site be there , but the answer be also to focus on water recycling , to recycle some of the water that be still be discharge into Moreton Bay . 
`` Peter Beattie talk endlessly about his water grid , he have n't lay one length of pipe yet , to ensure that water be recycle and the answer be also in pursue the emerge technology like desalination . 

Fishing industry prepares for $ 90m license buyback 
The fishing industry be set for a major shake-up , with the Federal Government set to spend $ 90 million buying up fishing licence . 
Two hundred licence will be buy back in the first round of the program , design to ease pressure on the fish stock and the environment . 
Fritz Drenkhahn from the South East Trawl Industry Fishing Association say there will be major change at most port . 
`` It 's the big change we 've have in our fishery ever , '' he say . 
`` There will be restructure on the shore facility , the ice-maker , the maintenance people , more so the haulage contractor which be now go to be a big issue for the operator leave remain actually get their fish to market , it 's quite an issue . 

US call on Aust to help to restart WTO Doha Round talk 
US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and US Trade Ambassador Susan Schwab will be in far north Queensland this week for the 20th anniversary summit of the Cairns Group . 
Mr Johanns and Ms Schwab want Australia 's help to restart the stalemated WTO Doha Round of trade talk . 
Mr Johanns say Australia have the 'high ground ' when it come to free trade . 
`` They be free trader , they be very , very supportive of market access and so , during the negotiation over the last couple of year , they have be right there with u , do everything they can to push the idea that tariff need to come down , that we need good market access , really , on a worldwide basis , '' he say . 
And Mr Johanns say non-subsidisers Australia and New Zealand be push to reduce farm subsidy a well . 

Tamed NT water buffalo head to Aceh 
The first shipment of trained water buffalo from the Northern Territory be be export to the Indonesian province of Aceh today . 
To see domesticated water buffalo be lead aboard a giant live export ship at the port of Darwin be quite unusual . 
But today , buffalo , along with camel , goat and cattle , be be load aboard the Deneb Prima , which can carry 20,000 to 30,000 head . 
Seven buffalo , six cow and one bull have be specially tamed and train by Queensland buffalo whisperer Graham Heffernan for remote rural village in Aceh . 
At least 30,000 work buffalo be lose in the 2004 Boxing Day tsunami , and these seven will pull plough , cart and carry heavy load . 

Pastoralists urge to diversify for future success 
A gathering of pastoralists in the Gascoyne region of Western Australia have be tell they need to diversify to shore up their future . 
Pastoralists have meet in Carnarvon at the third Gascoyne Muster to debate climate change , farm succession and how the industry will look in 2030 . 
Pastoralist Justin Steadman from Wooromel Station be one of those who have make the shift , with an agriculture and horticulture business about 120 kilometre south of Carnarvon . 
`` We can carry on do what we 're do and with a bit of luck and change in management , I believe we can do it well and it will be quite fruitful , '' he say . 

S Kidman and Co make feedlot investment 
In a bid to cope with the big dry , one of South Australia 's big pastoral company have invest in it first feedlot . 
S Kidman and Co have buy Tungali , north-east of Adelaide , and plan to grain feed around 4,000 cattle for the Japanese market . 
Chief Executive Greg Campbell say condition lead to the decision . 
`` Really , we finish cattle on native pasture in the channel country but there be plenty of time , particularly in South Australia , property see more drought than they do a you go further east , '' he say . 

Young farmer of the year considers use prize money for stockfeed 
Tasmania 's new young farmer of the year say he might have to use the prize money to buy stockfeed unless it rain soon . 
Heath Dobson have win $ 5,000 after prove himself Tasmania 's best farmer under the age of 30 . 
However he say with Tasmania 's continue dry condition he might be force to put the money towards feed cattle . 
`` We be go to need that bit of water from the sky I think shortly - it 's be a very , very dry winter , '' he say . 

Court order surrender of secret AWB document 
The Federal Court have order AWB to surrender nearly half the bundle of 900 document it try to keep secret from the oil-for-food inquiry . 
The bitter argument over the document have stall the inquiry 's investigation for the past three month . 
In hand down his order , Justice Neil Young say his decision focus on three issue : whether AWB have establish it claim , whether that claim have be waive by AWB 's own internal inquiry and whether any fraud , sham or trickery have take place . 
Justice Young say 25 of the document before him be not legitimate communication between AWB and it lawyer . 
He say a further 316 show AWB have waive it right to keep them secret when it carry out Project Rose and Project Water . 
The six document present to Justice Young involve the Tigris transaction he describe a be bring into existence for an improper and dishonest purpose . 
Justice Young add another four to this category . 

Diesel user miss out a crude price drop 
The price of petrol might be fall but diesel user be not see the benefit . 
Oil company be believe to be hold off on pass on the benefit of cheap crude oil price , which have fall from a high of $ US77 a barrel in early August to $ US64 . 
While unleaded petrol have fall by up to 20 cent a litre at the pump , diesel have only fall 2.2 cent a litre on average across regional Australia . 
Geoff Trotter from the independent fuel monitoring group , Fueltrack , say oil company be profit at the expense of farmer and the transport sector . 

Dry winter impact on grain crop 
The forecast for this year 's grain crop have take another big hit . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics say record low winter rainfall will lead to a 36 per cent drop in production to 26 million tonne . 
Queensland , Western Australia and South Australia be expect to be hard hit , with the canola crop tip to be the bad in 10 year . 
Barley will be down 40 per cent and Profarmer analyst Richard Koch say current warm weather across south-eastern Australia could slice another 4 million tonne off the already low wheat crop . 
`` There 's crop from about Narrabri down through Victoria that be in the balance at the moment and would need far rain to guarantee yield , '' he say . 

Hay export under cloud 
A 200,000 to 300,000 tonne shortfall be put export order for hay in jeopardy this year . 
With dry condition , forecast for the oaten hay crop have fall by half , leave farmer unable to fill contract order . 
One of the country 's large export company , Balco Australia , say it will take hay make from failed wheat crop to make up the shortfall . 
Marketing director Murray Smith say farmer will not make a much money , but at least they will receive a return for their crop . 
`` It 's probably only about $ 10 a tonne , mainly because a lot of the wheat be beard and be not exactly what they want , but hopefully for the grower they can get a bit of a yield from their crop , '' he say . 

Drastic drop in cotton planting expect 
The Australian cotton season have begin in central Queensland , although only a quarter of the normal area be expect to be plant . 
A small band of farmer have start plant crop , rely on unused irrigation water from last season , since there be no new water available this season because of the drought . 
Grower Hamish Miller say he be hop for good price , because of the low crop estimate . 
`` I could sit here for hour and talk about the price but I think fundamentally from information that I work with and receive I think the market do look like it will move higher in the short to medium term , '' he say . 

Irrigators wary about Govt 's water licence plan 
The New South Wales Government plan to buy water licence off irrigators to help meet it target for environmental flow in the Murray and Snowy Rivers . 
Until now the focus have be on find water saving , but the Government have now call for tender to sell water on a permanent basis . 
Conservationists have welcome the move but irrigators in inland New South Wales be wary . 
General manager of Murray Irrigation George Warne be worry that if the Government buy the water it will push up price or reduce access to water for irrigators . 
`` The State Government have move straightaway from water saving and it now just fully try to get into the water market , '' he say . 
`` The government may have give up , I think they might be come under some pressure to find the water saving and they 've decide that a more direct approach work . 

River flow reach low level 
River flow in Tasmania have reach their low level since record begin 40 year ago . 
Terry Leary from the Department of Primary Industries say record low winter rainfall across most of the state have also mean that many farmer have not be able to fill farm dam . 
He say it be also unusual that the dry condition be affect the entire state , even the usually high rainfall region of the state 's north-west . 

Rain help Kangaroo Is farmer 
There be one part of southern Australia that seem to be fare good than most . 
Farmers on Kangaroo Island off the coast of South Australia say early winter rain have pull them through . 
Even though the island have it dry winter on record , Kingscote farmer Rodney Bell say his crop be still on track and he have never see his livestock look so good . 

Livestock transport industry slam proposal to combat driver fatigue 
The livestock transport industry be continue it campaign against a draft proposal to crack down on driver fatigue . 
Submissions have now close on the recommendation by the National Transport Commission , to regulate the amount of hour driver be allow to work within specific time frame . 
George Johnston , from the Queensland Livestock Transporters Association , say the current proposal be unacceptable . 
`` We think it be too strenuous for starter for truck driver to understand and come to grip with , we think it be just too complex , we think there be economical repercussion down the track , '' he say . 

Workers worry about redundancy entitlement 
Workers at the Toowoomba processing plant of KR Castlemaine be worried they will miss out on full entitlement if they look for new job before the plant close . 
The company be plan to move it small good process operation to Victoria , leave 350 worker in limbo . 
The company have offer to help worker wish to relocate , but Tom Schulz from the Bacon Factory Workers Union say until it formally notify staff that the plant be close , worker who leave will not receive full redundancy entitlement . 
`` The employee have n't be technically advise they be go to be terminate , there be no actual termination notice be give , therefore if an employee be to leave now they would be entitle only to their accrual in the unused leave , '' he say . 

International College aim to reduce skill shortage 
Farmers in Victoria 's Sunraysia region be hop that an influx of overseas student will help to solve the region 's skill shortage . 
When it open next month , the Mildura International College will provide horticulture training to 100 student from different country , with a mixture of classroom and on-farm experience . 
Campus manager Bruce Hunter say there be already plenty of support from district farmer . 
`` We 've have people quite interested in have student to learn the profession , '' he say . 

Dohne merino to be sell over web 
The Internet be help grazier in remote rangeland area buy sheep that can cope with harsh , dry condition . 
With the grow popularity of the dohne merino breed , producer be about to begin sell livestock over the web , with 5,000 lamb from Queensland list for the first sale in November . 
Graham Coddington from the eastern state Dohne Breeders Association say the web be particularly useful for farmer who be a long way from the major saleyards . 
`` See there 's a lot of dohnes breed a long way from the market right up in Queensland and western NSW , '' he say . 
`` That give them competition for their product on their property before they ( the sheep ) leave there , without spend a cent on truck them somewhere and stress them all . 
`` Where they just go straight to where they 're destine for , whether it 's feedlot , meatworks or breeder . '' 
Meanwhile woolbuyers from around the world will be able to bid for Australian fibre on the Internet . 
Elders be set to move it global wool auction onto the web for the first time in November to allow more buyer , exporter and mill to compete . 

Fundraising group receive environmental award 
A Western Australian fundraising group have be award a Golden Gecko for environmental excellence after devise a method to recycle black PVC pipe from mine site . 
It be estimate there be ten of thousand of tonne of discarded black poly pipe lie around outback mine site in WA . 
Tony Fitz-Gibbon from Ruggies Recycling say the success of the project hinge on transport company give their service for free . 
`` The key to the actual process be the machine that go out there can be take out on site and can chop the pipe up into a shredded size , and then we put it in bulker bag and then it be bring back by the transport company on free backloads , '' he say . 
`` In Perth , the actual material be then wash and reprocess , and granulate , and be then make into either new poly pipe . 
`` Also we can coat the CCA treat pine log and make post for vineyard and that sort of thing with the recycled poly . '' 

Mandatory horticultural code of conduct announce 
The Federal Government have announce it will implement a mandatory code of conduct for the horticulture sector after grower group reject a voluntary proposal . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran make the announcement in the wake of a meeting last week where the National Farmers Federation and grower group AUSVEG reject a government proposal for a voluntary but legally enforceable code of conduct . 
Designed to provide more transparency for grower when it come to sell their produce , wholesaler have already warn they will take legal action to prevent a mandatory code be implement . 
The Government have flag grower may have to foot the bill for the cost of implement the code . 

Govts urge not to give up world trade fight 
World farm leader be urge government not to give up the fight to free up world trade . 
Delegates from the 18 member nation of the Cairns Group be meet in far north Queensland this week to mark the organisation 's 20th anniversary . 
They will attempt to find a way to revive the deadlocked Doha world trade talk , with the European Union and the US refuse to offer more concession to cut tariff and farm subsidy . 
David Crombie from the National Farmers Federation say break down market barrier be critical for Australian farmer . 
`` What we be look at be a more level base where we can compete more openly , '' he say . 
`` We think the EU need to open up it market more , we think the Americans need to take away some of their home support and the developing country need to have less exclusion . '' 
Federal Trade Minister Mark Vaile have put forward a proposal to try to revive the trade talk this week , but it have be dismiss by the head of America 's big farm group . 
American Farm Bureau president Bob Stallman say despite his high regard for Mr Vaile , he feel Mr Vaile 's proposal for a 5 per cent EU tariff cut , side by side with a $ US5 billion subsidy cut be unfair . 
`` The 5 per cent be not much , in and of itself but if you add in the potential effect of sensitive product and the percent of product there , not count special product for develop country , that 's not go to compensate u for give up $ 5 billion . '' 
Mr Stallman say Mr Vaile 's plan sound good , five and five , but that 's about the best that could be say for it - it do n't meet US WTO goal . 
Visiting Irish Trade Minister Michael Ahern hop the world trade talk can be put back on track . 
Mr Ahern say improved market access be a key issue because 90 per cent of Ireland 's production be export . 
He say there be room to negotiate the reduction of agricultural tariff and subsidy , but the United States need to come to the party too . 

AWB chief push for end to oil-for-food inquiry 
With talk of another extension , the head of AWB say the oil-for-food inquiry need to be conclude as soon a possible , to give certainty to grower already experience one of the bad season on record . 
Company chairman Brendan Stewart say wheat farmer have a tough harvest ahead and believe the current crop estimate could fall far . 
He say most grower have have enough of the inquiry and , like the AWB board , would like to see it end as soon a possible . 
`` It have n't be a pleasant experience for any of u and it obviously build on the level of uncertainty in the industry , '' he say . 
`` We want to move as quickly a possible to give the grower the certainty and assurance they 're seek in relation to the 06-07 pool and go forward . 

Hot wind add to farmer ' woe 
Hot north-westerly wind which fan a rash of small fire across Victoria yesterday have also far reduce the outlook for the state 's grain crop . 
Temperatures have top 32 degree in some region over the past few day , dry out already stressed wheat , barley and canola . 
Agronomists say all of the 1.5 million hectare of crop plant in the Mallee region have be affect , with farmer now look at harvest only a third of average yield . 
Despite a few millimetre of rain overnight , Ouyen farmer Alan Crook say there be now almost nothing leave in his paddock worth harvesting . 
`` We 're probably look at a desperate situation , '' he say . 
`` We have a bit of rain two week ago and I guess everyone have a bit of hope of get some crop . 

Dry weather impact on store sheep sale 
The number of spring sale of store sheep in Western Australia have halve due to the dry season . 
While the number of sheep be sell for the meat trade have soar in recent month , the amount of sheep be offer to other grazier have drop off . 
In the next 10 day just 28,000 store sheep will be on offer in WA , compare to nearly 170,000 for the same period last year . 
Recent rain have boost some region , but Ian White from Elders say there be still a lack of both store sheep and buyer . 
`` Some sheep that look like be sell a month ago , I think the rain 's certainly buy a lot of farmer a bit of breathe space , '' he say . 

New machinery sale down 
Farmers be spend less money on new machinery , with sale last financial year down by 9 per cent to $ 1.6 billion . 
The Tractor and Machinery Association be blame the drought for a $ 150 million fall in the sale of broadacre farm equipment . 
With the Henty Machinery Field Days under way in southern New South Wales , TMA executive director Vin Delahunty expect business to be slow . 
`` What we 've get be a situation where farmer stop spend late last year and really have n't start spending again and that 's because they 're concern about their cash flow , '' he say . 

Dairy Farmers Co-op win homebrand milk contract 
The Dairy Farmers Co-operative have win a contract to supply homebrand milk to Coles , Bi-Lo and Coles Express store across Queensland . 
The co-op already have contract with Coles in South Australia and New South Wales . 

NT farmer urge to fill out ag census form 
Northern Territory farmer have prove themselves the bad in Australia at fill out the national agricultural census . 
Held every five year , the census collect data on the nation 's farm production . 
Forms be due back in July , but so far only 60 per cent have be return from the Territory , compare to 80 per cent elsewhere . 
Valdis Juskevics from the Australian Bureau of Statistics ( ABS ) say the aftermath of cyclone Larry in north Queensland show the value of the census . 
`` In the hour after the cyclone in March , Government phone the ABS and ask what do we know about the farmer in far north Queensland , a in the number of farm , the type of farm , their production , '' he say . 
`` Within hour we turn that information around from the 2001 census and the next day , the Wednesday , the Government announce a recovery package for farmer . '' 

Conservation work help people with depression : study 
A research project in Victoria have find that work with local conservation group can help people from rural community deal with depression . 
Suicide rate in regional area be significantly high than in the city . 
Deakin University have run a pilot project in Geelong and along the Victorian coast and participant Joanne Farey from Anglesea , say it have help her . 
`` We do some activity like propagation , I do n't even know what that be beforehand , '' she say . 

Wholesalers concern about code of conduct exemption 
Vegetable grower be concern that a new mandatory code of conduct for their industry do not cover supermarket , processor or exporter . 
The code be design to provide great transparency to grower when it come to sell produce . 
The office of Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have today confirm the exemption and say the code will only apply to wholesaler . 
Head of the Horticulture Australia Council Kris Newton say she can not believe it . 
`` That certainly have n't be convey to u . We would be bitterly disappointed if that be the outcome and it 's certainly not what we 're look for , '' she say . 
`` I have n't have that information from the Minister or the Minister 's office so clearly we would need to talk with them and get a straight story about what 's go on . '' 
Wholesalers say they will take legal action if supermarket chain be not force to comply with the mandatory code . 
Andrew Young from the Central Markets Association say if the code be anti-competitive , they may take action through the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission . 
He believe politics affect the decision . 
`` The Government have decide to work towards an enforceable voluntary code and then at the twelfth hour this major backflip , '' he say . 
`` So we can only speculate that the National party pursue an outcome and have their way at the end of the day . '' 
Some grower and wholesaler in the horticulture sector be question the need for the code , which they fear will cost them money . 
`` We have some very strong relationship with our fruit and vegetable agent across Australia , '' Mark Boyd , general manager of Tropical Pines say . 
`` Those be very mature relationship and very open relationship that have be very successful for u . 
`` So we 'll have to wait and see the detail of the code of conduct and actually wait to see how it will benefit u . '' 
`` I 'm probably a little bit disappointed . It be go to add cost to our business and how we do business , it 's hard to quantify exactly how much , '' Grant Nicholl , wholesaler business manager with Flavorite tomato marketing say . 

WTO chief warns of Aust export change 
The head of the World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) say Australia may have to give up it single-desk export system to score a win in the Doha round of the world trade talk . 
WTO director-general Pascal Lamy have tell the Cairns Group summit in Queensland the European Union have problem with Australia 's monopoly selling system for wheat , barley and sugar . 
But Federal Trade Minister Mark Vaile have reject suggestion the single desk be use a trade barrier . 
`` The reality be that those that fall into that category in Australia do n't have any of those trade-distorting element to them , '' he say . 
`` But if I could just make one other point . 

Cairns Group fear time run out for reform 
The 18 member nation of the Cairns Group be concern the window of opportunity be close to secure a deal to reform world farm trade . 
At the end of it three day summit in far north Queensland , the group have call on member of the World Trade Organisation to resume talk by no late than November . 
The Cairns Group represent country that rely heavily on agricultural export , from Latin America to Asia , and include Australia , New Zealand , South Africa and Canada . 
For the last few day , the group have be try to get the Doha round of trade talk back up and run . 
The group 's chairman , Australian Trade Minister Mark Vaile , say the level of ambition have not change and no-one , not even the US , European Union ( EU ) or Japan , have hint they might abort future discussion . 
But the group be say the major player need to be prepare to give more and expect less . 

Japan look to limit FTA proposal 
A propose free-trade deal between Australia and Japan be look shaky , with agriculture again the most contentious issue . 
Japanese Counsel-General Tsukasa Kawada have address a conference at Orange , in New South Wales , and make it clear attempt to remove trade protection for his country 's agricultural sector will be a stumbling block . 
`` Japanese agriculture be quite sensitive , '' he say . 
`` The Australian side hop that we start negotiation on every agricultural product . 

Monopoly question amid AWB probe extension 
The oil-for-food inquiry have be give another two month to deliver it final report . 
Federal Attorney-General Phillip Ruddock have extend the inquiry into AWB 's deal with Iraq until November 24 . 
As a result , the Western Australian Pastoralists and Graziers Association say the Federal Government should make change to legislation now to allow other company to export grain . 
Spokesman Leon Bradley say the delay leave grower , who be move into harvest , feeling insecure about their wheat return from AWB . 
`` It leave grower in a very difficult position for the forthcoming harvest because we actually need legislative clarity because we deliver our grain , '' he say . 

DNA test use in cattle-duffing case 
Police in Queensland have use DNA evidence to crack one of the state 's big cattle-duffing case in year . 
A mother and son from a north Queensland graze family have be convict in the Mackay District Court for stock theft . 
The Queensland Stock Squad use DNA from the tail of 276 cattle allegedly steal from four north Queensland property to trace the animal back to their original owner . 
Squad spokesman Terry Hanly say although the test cost $ 15,000 , it be worth it . 

Prices soar at organic wool sale 
Prices have soar at Australia 's first organic wool sale in Melbourne , with some fleece fetch up to 50 cent a kilogram more than non-organic . 
Three-hundred bale of wool from South Australia , New South Wales , Victoria and Queensland have be auction . 
Elders spokesman Michael Blake say the difference in price be stark and more organic auction be likely to be hold down the track . 
`` We have two of the large buyer in Australia bidding against each other to take these level above the normal market for the type on the day , '' he say . 
`` The fine end of the wool go to 50 cent and high above it equivalent . 
`` The middle micron , say 21 , 21-and-a-half , it be a good 30 to 50 cent above the equivalent fleece type . 

Flystrike plague WA sheep 
Western Australian sheep producer be battle a wave of flystrike a a result of rain over the past month . 
With grow pasture , many sheep have be switch from hand-feeding to green grass and the change in diet be cause widespread diarrhoea and flystrike outbreak . 

Farmers take on environmental reform : survey 
A new survey show more farmer be change their management style to address environmental problem . 
A survey by the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics of 1,700 broadacre and dairy farmer show 80 be willing to accept low profit in some year to help the environment . 
Economist Andrew Hodges say the number of farmer involve in Landcare have also rise to 41 per cent since the last survey in 2001 . 
`` Around 60 per cent of farmer report that they have some kind of degradation issue on their farm , '' he say . 
`` Farmers , once they have identify that they 've get a degradation issue , be respond really well to those problem . 

Apple production 'set to double ' 
International consultant say Australia 's apple industry be on track to double production in just six year . 
Apple and Pear Australia have employ expert from New Zealand to oversee the project , call Future Orchards 2012 . 
New Zealand consultant Steve Spark have just finish tour Australia and say the aim of produce 45 tonne per hectare be realistic . 
`` The next two year be just to get grower to realise they need to intensify and I think that have pretty much come to the fore now , '' he say . 
`` I would say , yes , they should be able to do it , if they 're serious about orcharding . 

US stint prime firefighter for summer 
Fire crew be prepare for an early fire season , with several blaze flare up around the country this week . 
But 45 Australian and New Zealand firefighter be just return from the frontline in the US , after spend the winter fight fire during one of the bad North American fire season in decade . 
Victorian firefighter Dennis Matthews say it have help them to be ready for this summer . 
`` It 's keep them in tune and switch them on early than they would have switch on , '' he say . 

Community hold vigil for rain 
The small community of Mono in Queensland 's Burnett region be turn to prayer in an attempt to make it rain . 
The district 's main water storage , Cania Dam , be at just six per cent of capacity after year of drought . 
Local pastor Estelle Hawkins be hop that people from all walk of life will join the 24-hour prayer vigil . 
`` I think it be critical . I guess I hear a lot of people say why have n't we have rain , and I think , a I read the Bible , I see there , God say , 'Your prayer be n't be answer because you be n't ask ' , '' she say . 
`` And I think , 'Right , why should n't we put aside some time together ? ' '' 

MLA manager quit over hack scandal 
After almost a month-long investigation , a computer hack scandal engulf Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) have claim it first and perhaps only scalp . 
Late last month , it be reveal MLA staff member have hack into an online poll on the National Livestock Identification System . 
Today , the head of MLA 's National Livestock Identification Unit , Christian Mulders , have resign . 
Even though MLA 's medium statement do not name him , the ABC have confirm Mr Mulders have resign . 
It be unclear whether he be directly involve in the poll tampering or have take the fall for others . 
Disciplinary action have be take against a number of other employee but MLA manage director David Palmer have refuse to be interview . 
Australian Beef Association head Linda Hewitt , who raise the alarm over the hack scandal , remain deeply sceptical . 

Dry weather prompt Ash Wednesday comparison 
The nation 's peak fire agency be warn that the dry condition be already as bad a those lead up to the devastate Ash Wednesday bushfires of 1983 . 
Fifty bushfires break out across New South Wales over the weekend , ring alarm bell for the Australasian Fire Authorities Council . 
The Ash Wednesday fire in Victoria and South Australia be fuel by hot wind after year of drought and kill more than 70 people . 
The council 's chief executive Len Foster say condition be very similar this year . 
`` During August nationally we 've have the warm and hot period on record , '' he say . 
`` Victoria have over 200 fire last week and New South Wales have 30 or 40 fire today . 
`` It 's almost unheard of to have fire of that number and indeed that size in part of Victoria a we 're experience at the moment . '' 

Vaile to concentrate on win back Nationals ' seat 
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile be defend the state of the Nationals after announce a reshuffle to allow him to spend more time at home . 
Mr Vaile will swap his Trade portfolio for Transport , with former agriculture minister Warren Truss to now represent Australia in international trade talk , include attempt to restart the Doha trade talk . 
Mr Vaile say his job now be to concentrate on win back seat and deliver improved infrastructure to rural Australia . 
`` What I 'm do be put myself back on the ground in Australia on a permanent basis to ensure we have our best opportunity at the next election to increase our number , '' he say . 

Push for inland rail network gather speed 
The push for an inland rail network between Melbourne and Brisbane have gather pace at a meeting at Parkes in central western New South Wales . 
One hundred and fifty delegate from New South Wales , Queensland and Victoria have push the Federal Government to decide on a route . 
But the Government have give no financial commitment . 
There be a mix of local government and private sector player discuss way to make the rail route viable . 
The delegate be address by the incoming Transport Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile . 
Mr Vaile tell the gathering very little freight be currently carry on rail . 
He blame the Sydney bottleneck and highlight the need to develop an alternative system from Melbourne to Brisbane . 
Mr Vaile do say it would take until 2019 to develop the inland rail route , even if planning start now . 
He be however short on commit to Federal Government fund to the inland rail route between Melbourne and Brisbane . 

Tobacco grower fear for industry 
Victorian tobacco grower say their industry be on it deathbed , with their main buyer set to pull out at the end of 2008 . 
British American Tobacco will look to other country for cheap tobacco , offer it 138 Australian grower a $ 10 million compensation package . 
John Muraca from the Tobacco Co-operative of Victoria say they have be tell their crop be too expensive due to high labour cost . 
`` We 've get to compete with the Third World country of this world - your Thailands , your India , Brazil and Zimbabwe and look our wage , '' he say . 

Farmers vent frustration at rally 
Hundreds of farmer be rally in the north-west Victorian town of Mildura to air their frustration at the state of the horticulture sector . 
Tractors , ute , truck and farm machinery be make their way down Mildura 's main street . 
Horticulturalists have a range of frustration include a lack of export market , battle with cheap import and there be also concern about manage investment scheme . 

Native vegetation regulation cost grazier 
A new report say native vegetation regulation in Queensland be cost some grazier up to a million dollar each in lose development . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) say the regulation have cost the rural sector about $ 520 million all up , with southern and western area hardest hit . 
ABARE 's Lisa Elliston say grazier can not increase the carry capacity of their property and the finding suggest land clear law should be more flexible . 
`` What we mean by increased flexibility be the possibility of explore for example thing like tradeable development right - that might require exploration of whether or not we can conserve or allow agricultural development to occur in one area if there 's increased native vegetation conservation in another area , '' she say . 

Sheep and cattle price slump 
Prices for sheep and cattle have crash in South Australia after massive stock sell-offs last week . 
Across many region a lack of rain have see pasture dry up force producer to sell off livestock early in the season . 
More than 100,000 sheep , lambs and cattle go through the saleyards last week , force price down . 
Bruce Redpath from Southern Australian Livestock in Naracoorte have not see price so low in year . 
`` The big drop have be on cow I think , where we 've see cow fall in a week , a hundred to a $ 150 , '' he say . 

Drought behind yarding increase at Hay sale 
The drought be prompt sheep producer in the New South Wales Riverina to send extra stock to the annual spring breeder sale . 
The yarding for the Hay store merino sheep sale on Friday be up by 20 per cent to almost 55,000 head . 
Graham Morphett from the Hay Merino Breeders Association say price be well down on last year , but hold up well than expect in such a dry season . 
`` The whole sale there be people ready to buy sheep , there be 500 people attend , '' he say . 

Minister to lobby Govt to extend EC funding to Nullarbor pastoralists 
After month of ask for support , drought-hit pastoralists on the Nullarbor have be tell they will receive help in an attempt to receive federal drought relief . 
Western Australia 's Agriculture Minister Kim Chance make a fly visit on Saturday and tell the group he will lobby the Federal Government to extend exceptional circumstance ( EC ) funding to the area . 
Peter Brown from Arubiddy Station , who host the visit , say many pastoralists have be force to sell off their sheep and cattle because of the lack of rain . 

Rain lift Tasmania 's spirit 
There have be very welcome rain in Tasmania to lift spirit with fall of between 10 and 30 millimetre . 
The state 's river level be at their low since record-keeping begin 40 year ago . 
The very dry southern midland district of Tunbridge receive about 30 millimetre , which Greg Powell say be more than some neighbouring area . 
`` We 'll we 're probably pray a bit harder ... but no , no it 's be great for the country , '' he say . 
`` I 'm a contractor you know and a lot of farmer be put stock on cereal crop which we would n't end up harvest in the finish , so it 's sort of a snowball effect . 

Biosecurity plan aim to protect mango industry 
A national biosecurity plan have be develop to protect the mango industry . 
It will help orchard to prepare for pest and disease outbreak . 
Plant Health Australia 's Lindy Hyam say the plan will also help preserve export market . 

Bee industry insider blame for expensive 'sting ' 
Bee thief in Tasmania be make off with thousand of insect , steal hive and threaten livelihood . 
This year a series of theft have cost Tasmanian beekeeper an estimated $ 100,000 . 
Mole Creek beekeeper Shirley Stephens have lose hive in the late 'sting ' and say she suspect insider be at work . 
`` A hive at the moment , if you take it to pollination , be worth anything from 80 to $ 100 per hive , but I 'm afraid it must be from within our own industry that this be happen because John Smith or Joe Blow would n't dream of go near a bee hive , '' she say . 

Stations look to unmanned plane over traditional labour 
Remote control aeroplanes that can monitor stock , fence and water level be become cost competitive with farm labour . 
That be the finding of an MLA sponsor project be carry out by the Queensland Department of Primary Industries and the Kondinin Group . 
The project be look into technology that can cut labour expense on large cattle station . 
Les Zeller from the Queensland DPI say unmanned plane will make light work of everyday surveillance task . 

Frost devastate Goulburn Valley fruit 
Fruit price could be set to rise , with one of Australia 's main stone fruit grow region devastate by a severe frost . 
Victoria 's Goulburn Valley , which be home to the nation 's large fruit processor SPC Ardmona , will lose an estimated $ 70 million this harvest . 
Ian Bolitho from Fruit Growers Victoria say up to half of the 300,000 tonne of fruit grow in the region have be wipe out . 
`` All the apricot have go , they show sign of start to shrivel and drop off now , at least 50 per cent of the plum crop be go and probably most of the nectarine crop , and probably 50 per cent of the peach crop , '' he say . 
`` We 're just assess on the fresh pear at the moment but they 're not look all that flash either . '' 
Growers be now ask why the weather bureau do not give them any warning of the Sunday night frost . 
An Internet-based forecasting service be set up in 2003 after a similar frost cause widespread damage . 
But there be no warn issue on Sunday night . 
Kevin Parkyn from the bureau say that be a mistake . 
`` I think the system be a good one . I think it 's exceptional , '' he say . 
`` Unfortunately we miss this case which do n't look good on our track record . 
`` As I say it sometimes can be a very fine line particularly with such intense vigorous windy condition on the Sunday to have it drop out so rapidly be very unusual . '' 
Elsewhere , grower say they do not expect to see major increase in the price of fruit , but believe the market will be affect . 
Sympathetic Queensland grower Pat Wibaux say it be not the first time the weather have cause a disaster . 
`` It 's not something that someone like to see happen , but it occasionally do , '' he say . 

Cotton grower offer refund if crop plough 
For the first time in history , cotton grower have be offer a full refund on their seed cost if they be force to plough in their crop due to a lack of rain . 
Cotton Seed Distributors have develop the drought package to entice farmer to plant over the coming month , know they can recoup their cost if the season do not improve . 
Company spokesman Adam Kay say the industry need help . 
`` One of the thing we could do be assist those grower that be want to have a little bit of a punt on thing this season , put some cotton in where they have n't get enough water at this stage or maybe when the price be n't that good , '' he say . 

Water protection effort do n't go far enough : farmer 
The Federal Government 's new effort to protect water resource be be criticise for not go far enough . 
An Office of Water Resources will be establish within the Prime Minister 's department to provide and coordinate national water policy . 
But Victorian farmer Mark Wootton , whose family have donate $ 10 million for a new Climate Institute that 's be launch today , say the broad issue of climate change need to be address . 

Scientist push for more research into NT coral reef 
There have be a call for more research into coral reef off the Northern Territory coastline . 
Marine scientist Dr Victor Gomelyuk say climate change and cyclone have decimate some reef in the Gulf of Carpenteria . 
He say coral should be use a an early warning of destructive change . 
`` The main threat be actually global temperature rising , '' he say . 
`` When sea temperature be raise above about 32 degree it 's almost lethal . 
`` Lots of other marine component of biota will be affect by these elevate temperature and [ there will be ] other consequence of this elevated temperature you know . 

AWB lawyer quiz about secret document 
An AWB in house lawyer have be reduce to tear at the resumption of public hearing of the Cole inquiry in Sydney . 
Witness Jessica Lyons have be quiz about two previously secret document release to the inquiry by the Federal Court . 
The document from January 2003 show exchange between Blake Dawson and Waldren 's solicitor Hazel Brassington and Ms Lyons . 
They discuss change to the freight arrangement of two wheat contract for the Iraqi Grains Board . 
When senior counsel assist John Agius ask Ms Lyons who authorise the change , she tell the inquiry she believe it be AWB marketing executive Chris Whitwell . 
Earlier , Mr Whitwell and former AWB employee Michael Long make an application to keep secret , name of two legal advice document , claim their publication would prejudice them and affect the conduct of any possible future jury trial . 
Commissioner Cole reject their application . 
Meanwhile AWB have increase estimate pool return for this season 's wheat crop . 
Growers can expect to receive between four and $ 10 a tonne more . 
Feed grain have see the big lift , due to strong local demand . 

British company to takeover Perth oil exploration company 
Perth-based oil exploration company Hardman Resources have agree to a takeover by British-based Tullow Oil . 
Tullow Oil be offer just over $ 2 a share for the company , which be know for it offshore oil project in develop country . 
Stock analyst Peter Strackensays say the offer have have a positive impact on Australian oil exploration stock across the board . 
`` We 've see quite a few stock bounce on that - Roc Oil , who share interest in Mauritania with Hardman and Woodside and have other interest in China and other part of West Africa , '' he say . 

US call for farm subsidy change 
US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns be call for sweep reform to farm subsidy to head off a possible new challenge before the World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) . 
But a top farm group be oppose the move , in what be shape up to be a major fight over US farm policy . 
Brazil have already win a WTO case against US cotton subsidy . 
Now Mr Johanns say Brazil may strike again . 
`` What they 're after be our marketing loan program and our counter cyclical program , '' he say . 
But the American Farm Bureau ( AFB ) and other group say they have not hear this and bureau trade adviser Chris Garza say his group warn against premature concession . 
`` If we go in and make any change to the farm Bill now we could get a WTO , in which case , country could ask u to do more , '' he say . 

Citrus grower hop for good orange price 
Citrus grower be hop a fall in the production of valencia orange will result in good price . 
The national crop be expect to fall by 25 per cent to under 200,000 tonne due to frost damage earlier this year in South Australia and the Murray Valley . 
In the Riverina region of New South Wales , production be tip to be 90,000 tonne , down from more than 120,000 last season . 
Peter Morrish from Riverina Citrus say record price of more than $ 2,500 a tonne be be pay for import orange juice concentrate , so local grower be in a good bargaining position . 
`` There 's discussion go on at the present time in term of future contract and that 's look positive on the grower ' side at this stage , but unfortunately it 's a wait and see , '' he say . 

Miniature greenhouse trial prof effective in retain water 
Broad acre farmer in the future could find themselves use hundred of miniature greenhouse to save soil moisture and improve growth rate in their crop . 
Bronwyn Laycock from the Cooperative Research Centre for Polymers say by stretch clear plastic over seed-beds , grower can create an entire paddock of tiny greenhouse . 
She say so far trial have show the technique be effective at retain water in dry cropping district . 
`` What we 're try to do be put it down over the seed a it be sown and it trap moisture , and trap the heat under the film like a greenhouse , '' she say . 
`` [ It ] give it a well grow environment and also it mean that a it be grow , we 're capture all the water that 's transpire , we 're capture the water in the soil so we get a moister soil environment . 

PM hit out at Murray Darling Basin effort 
The Prime Minister , John Howard , have accuse the Labor government in the eastern state of not do enough to address the Murray Darling Basin 's environmental problem . 
It come a the Commonwealth set up a new Office of Water Resources , spark suggestion it be take step to take over control of water from the state . 
But Mr Howard say he prefer to cooperate with the state . 
`` But it 's get to be collaboration that make progress , '' he say . 
`` I 'm very unhappy with the Murray Darling Basin . I do n't think we 're go fast enough , I do n't think the Queensland , NSW and Victoria have the same interest a South Australia in make progress on that issue . 
`` And they ca n't say the Commonwealth be not do it bit , we put in an extra $ 500 million out of the last Budget which we be n't really require to . '' 
And 3,000 farmer in Victoria 's Wimmera Mallee be expect to be eligible for water tank rebate this year . 
As a result of the ongoing dry condition , Grampians Wimmera Mallee Water will start water cart on Monday . 

Sorghum price rise 
As concern mount about feed grain supply across Australia , sorghum price have jump nearly 20 per cent in a fortnight . 
Sorghum be a major component of ration for cattle and pig in feedlot . 
Jim Cudmore , at Kerwee feedlot in southern Queensland , say his feed price be now rise exponentially and that be already influence competitiveness in country like Japan . 
`` Our customer have be tell u for some time now that we be start to lose our price competitiveness , in term of product into that market , '' he say . 

Govt reject Goulburn Valley natural disaster call 
The Victorian Government will not be declare the Goulburn Valley a natural disaster area . 
Frosts ruin most of the area 's stonefruit crop this week , with loss exceed 300,000 tonne . 
Growers have call on the state and federal government to declare the region a natural disaster area . 
The Victorian Agriculture Minister , Bob Cameron , have reject the call , but say exceptional circumstance application from the area will be fast-tracked . 
`` When it come to long term arrangement , the preferable arrangement be exceptional circumstance , '' he say . 

Wesfarmers to build LNG plant 
Wesfarmers be to build a $ 138 million liquefied natural gas ( LNG ) plant at Kwinana , near Perth . 
The plant will produce 175 tonne per day of LNG for use in heavy haulage vehicle . 
Two power station will also be build at remote mine sit to provide energy for those operation . 
Construction of the LNG plant will begin soon and it be schedule to be commission in early 2008 . 
Wesfarmers energy manage director Tim Bult say the company be confident of expand operation elsewhere in Australia . 

Next phase of fish industry buyout set to begin 
The next stage of the national fishing industry buyout commences tomorrow . 
Fishing town be invite to apply for a share of $ 40 million , to assist them if they be affect by the buyout of 400 fishing licence . 
Businesses can seek up to $ 100,000 each to close down or a quarter of a million dollar to redevelop . 
Federal Fisheries Minister Eric Abetz say individual business and community have until January 12 to apply for grant . 
`` Business that can no longer operate at all - they can apply for the business exit assistance , for those that say 'we can be still be viable if we can tweak our business but we need some assistance ' well we 've get the business development assistance , '' he say . 
`` For community at large , come up with idea a to how they might be able to develop something which will provide alternate employment then we 're willing to assist those community as well . '' 
Meanwhile , the Australian Conservation Foundation have call for a worldwide ban on the sale of patagonian toothfish . 
The call come after the New South Wales District Court fin two crew member of a Cambodian-registered ship more than $ 100,000 for illegally take the toothfish . 
Denise Boyd , from the Conservation Foundation , say the penalty be insufficient and show that the fishery can not be effectively manage . 
`` By shut the fishery down and therefore have no legal product on the market it basically mean that any product that do turn up on the market clearly do come from illegal , unreported and unregulated source , '' she say . 

Rally to highlight wool grower ' frustration 
There be grow frustration about the option be provide to wool grower during the current woolpoll , with a crisis rally to be hold next week in the central west of New South Wales . 
Producers can have a say on the level of wool tax they pay , from zero to 3 per cent . 
But Wellington producer Peter Barton say they must also be able to influence how the tax take be use . 

Qld urge to take advantage of new GM technology 
One of Australia 's leading expert in genetically modify ( GM ) crop say Queensland be in an unique position to take advantage of new technology . 
Queensland and the Northern Territory have not follow the other state in ban GM crop . 
The CSIRO 's plant industry deputy chief , Dr T J Higgins , say buyer overseas , such a Japan , be open up to genetically modify product , despite voice opposition in the past . 
`` The ironic thing be our major competitor in Canada produce GM canola , mix it with the non-GM canola and sell it to Japan very competitively with Australia , '' Dr Higgins say . 
`` Australia do not get a premium for it non-GM canola in Japan . So I ask myself the question - why be we put at a potential disadvantage to our competitor ? '' 
At the same time , a group of farmer on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula have call for the state 's ban on GM food crop to be lift , to help beat the problem of herbicide resistance . 

Report highlight structural issue for Aboriginal pastoral company 
A report into the economic viability of Aboriginal pastoral company in the Kimberley have find they be not structure to deliver sustainable profit . 
The report , commission by Meat and Livestock Australia , survey a third of the 30 station own and operate by Aboriginal community in north-western Australia . 
Report co-author Peter McEntree say productivity be generally low and stock rate , and land quality poor , compare to local non-Aboriginal cattle property . 
`` One of the key issue and it 's really a bit of a structural issue for a lot of Indigenous property and that 's just the issue of scale , '' he say . 

Chile push for Australian wine industry cooperation 
Australian researcher will soon be share information with one of our wine industry 's major international competitor . 
Charles Sturt University in New South Wales have sign a memorandum of understand with the Institute of Agricultural Research in Chile . 
Speaking through an interpreter , the Chilean Agriculture Minister Alvaro Rojas say the two country could work together to develop Northern Hemisphere market . 
`` The country , especially in the Southern Hemisphere like New Zealand , Australia and Chile , need to be work together , '' he say . 

Education the answer to reduce road fatality , say truckies 
There be debate in the Northern Territory about whether to introduce speed limit along the Stuart Highway . 
It be believe authority may be consider introduce a limit of 110 kilometre an hour to reduce road fatality . 
But the Australian Trucking Association 's Peter Goed say the answer be more education about the risk of fatigue . 
He say it would actually be more dangerous to limit the speed of motorist try to overtake road train . 

Drought predict to worsen 
There be another gloomy forecast today that suggest the drought be set to worsen . 
The weather bureau be predict a hotter than average lead-up to summer right across the country and below-average rain in most of eastern Australia . 
The seasonal outlook from October to December say there be up to a 70 per cent chance that northern Queensland , Victoria , South Australia and Tasmania will be dry than normal . 
Bureau climatologist Blair Trewin say temperature will be generally high than normal . 
`` The outlook be lean quite strongly towards warm condition in much of the country both daytime maximum and overnight minimum temperature , '' he say . 

Drought take it toll 
The drought 's effect be worsen daily . 
The winter grain crop in NSW be on a knife 's edge and almost half of it could fail without rain in the next seven to 10 day . 
The state 's Primary Industries Minister , Ian Macdonald , say dry wind and no rain have combine to make the bad condition possible . 
His department be downsize crop prediction and now expect less than 2.5 million hectare to be harvest , less than half the annual average . 

Harsh weather 
In Victoria , harsh weather be take it toll on grain crop in the Mallee and Wimmera region . 
The combination of high temperature and dry wind , follow by frost , have some grower consider harvest nothing this year . 
Department of Primary Industries agronomist Rob Sonogan say the damage have be patchy . 
`` What we 're really see a an average across the whole zone be somewhere about 30 per cent of average yield expectation and that 's daily decreasing , '' he say . 

Poor season 
In WA , the poor season be be blame for a 23 per cent fall in the number of livestock enter in this year 's Royal Agricultural Show which start in Perth this weekend . 
The Royal Agricultural Society 's Deane Allen say many farmer will spend their money on livestock feed , rather than take animal to the show . 
`` I would suggest , from the sheep point of view , it 's be very difficult for people to get feed , '' he say . 

NRMA reject petrol company ' petrol transport cost claim 
The NRMA have reject claim by petrol company that transport cost be to blame for high fuel cost at country service station . 
The head of the motoring body , Alan Evans , have tell the Senate inquiry into petrol pricing that consolidation of retailer and outlet mean price will only get high . 
He say petrol retailer must be force to be transparent about why their rural station charge up to 20 cent a litre more than city outlet . 
`` Even the oil company themselves say three cent a litre would account for the freight cost , '' he say . 
`` When you look at differential a we have in the last week between Sydney and Wagga , of nearly 20 cent a litre , 19 , you have differential of 14 between Wagga and Albury on the same day on the average price of fuel , you ca n't explain it by freight . '' 
But there be bright prospect for an alternative fuel . 
An Australian company have be award $ 2 million by the United States Energy Department to trial an alternative hydrogen fuel blend for vehicle engine . 
Eden Energy say some American bus will be power by it hythane mix . 
Hythane blend 7 per cent hydrogen with 93 per cent natural gas . 
Eden Energy executive chairman Greg Solomon say the US particularly want the technology because of stringent emission standard be introduce next year . 

Group hit out at inequality between urban , rural training facility 
The body which represent TAFEs say inequality between urban and rural training facility be contribute to rural skill shortage . 
It want the federal and state government to consider proposal include more cooperation between urban and rural TAFEs , set up specialist technical school for year 11 and 12 student and establish a new trade diploma . 
Martin Riordan , from TAFE Directors Australia , say student number have fall by 67,000 in the past five year and country institute in particular be not attractive enough . 
`` There be massive discrimination within the system against rural and regional [ area ] , '' he say . 

NT fisherman reach buyout deal 
Up to six northern prawn trawl licence may have be buy back by the Federal Government . 
Darwin fisherman Tony Thiel say he be relieve to have reach a deal in the first round of the national industry buyout . 
He have be unable to sell 10 tonne of banana prawn catch earlier this year . 
But Mr Thiel say restructuring would not have be necessary , if the Government have do more to limit import of cheap inferior prawn . 
`` I do n't believe they will need restructure any more . What our problem be , they ca n't sell the product and that be the main thing now , '' he say . 
`` They could stop import . They stop it in the state , the industry , the fisherman stop it import and dupe of prawn . '' 
Meanwhile , Australia 's patagonian tooth fisherman have reject call to close down the fishery . 
This week , two illegal fisherman be fin more than $ 100,000 for poaching . 
The Australian Conservation Foundation say the penalty be no deterrent and a worldwide ban on the sale of the toothfish would be more effective . 
But Les Scott from Petuna Sealord say that would punish responsible operator . 

Company say SA Zircon grade among best in world 
Mining of zircon in the far west of South Australia be a step closer , with the discovery of what could be the world 's rich grade of the mineral . 
The Adelaide Resources and Iluka Resources joint venture have announce that the Tripitaka deposit north-west of Ceduna , contain about 650,000 tonne of zircon , which be use to make ceramic , glass and aluminium . 
Adelaide Resources chairman Keith Yates value the deposit at about $ 650 million . 
`` The zircon content of the heavy mineral component of Tripitaka be in the order of 65 per cent and 65 per cent by world standard be absolutely extraordinary as far a the heavy mineral component of the deposit be concern , '' he say . 

AWI happy with current marketing funding 
Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) say it be happy with the level of funding for marketing , despite some grower fear that it be not enough . 
AWI be recommend a 2 per cent levy in the upcoming wool poll which would see $ 35 million spent on product development and marketing . 
AWI chairman Ian McLachlan want to ensure the marketing program be effective before commit more fund . 
`` If that do work as well a we hope it will , it 's not beyond the realm of contemplation to have another poll before the three year be up , '' he say . 

Milk company to draw up shortlist of buyer 
A merger or takeover have not be rule out for one of Australia 's main milk company . 
Tatura Milk , which control around 5 per cent of Australia 's supply , be undergo a financial review after post a $ 6 million pre-tax loss last year . 
Supplier meeting be hold this week in Victoria 's Goulburn Valley to explain option put forward by several party interested in Tatura . 
Company chairman Ian Bertram say a shortlist will be draw up before any decision be make about merger or fund help . 
`` At this stage we ca n't confirm who they be , but we be negotiate with 10 to 12 interested party , '' he say . 

Canegrowers back call for voluntary destruction of smut affect cane 
The Canegrowers organisation support the Queensland Government 's call for cane farmer to voluntarily destroy crop severely affect by sugar cane smut . 
The disease have be detect on more than 60 property in south-east Queensland since June . 

Dept defend performance of Indigenous pastoral enterprise 
The organisation that support the development of Indigenous pastoral enterprise in the Kimberley have defend the performance of the organisation . 
A Meat and Livestock Australia report into the economic viability of Aboriginal pastoral company in northern Western Australia find productivity and stock rate be generally poor , compare with non-Indigenous owned property . 
But Russell Show from WA 's Agriculture and Food Department say the report be too negative . 
`` The report 's accurate but it 's not complete , '' he say . 
`` And in fact in the review it suggest that there be us , multiple us that Aboriginal community want on their property and that those us by their nature maybe mutually exclusive but we 've discover that they 're not . 

Black wattle tree research may help in greenhouse gas fight 
New research into black wattle tree may help the fight against greenhouse gas . 
Scientists at the Victorian Department of Primary Industries be trialling compound find in black wattle , a part of research on reduce methane emission from cow . 
The compound be know a `` tannin '' and be be trialled in a new drench that have the ability to change the way cow digest feed . 
Scientist Martin Auldist say previous trial have find the tannin cut methane emission from sheep . 
`` Overseas study have show that tannins from black wattle can reduce methane emission by about 13 per cent , '' he say . 

Cole blast AWB for withhold crucial email 
A furious oil-for-food inquiry Commissioner Terence Cole have blast lawyer for AWB follow the overnight production of a crucial email . 
After an hour-long delay to proceeding , Commissioner Cole enter the court room in a fiery mood . 
He demand an explanation from AWB about how the August 2002 email and it attachment from the head of UK-based Ronly Holdings , to AWB in-house lawyer , Rosemary Peevey , be not produce month ago . 
A contrite counsel for AWB , James Judd QC , tell the commission the email be a crucial document and have it be produce month ago , the length of the Cole inquiry would have be shorten . 

Flugge admit transport fee knowledge 
Former AWB chairman Trevor Flugge have tell the Cole inquiry into the oil-for-food scandal he do know about transport fee be pay to a Jordanian trucking company . 
When Mr Flugge step into the witness box he indicate he be have trouble hear senior counsel assist John Agius QC . 
The problem soon clear and the questioning become robust . 
Mr Agius ask the witness : `` Were you aware in September 2002 that AWB be pay a trucking fee ? '' 
Mr Flugge reply : `` Yes , I believe I be . '' 
Mr Agius continue : `` To whom do you believe AWB be contractually bind to pay the trucking fee , '' Mr Flugge answer , `` to a Jordanian trucking company '' . 
But when Mr Agius quiz the former AWB chairman about UK-based Ronly Holdings , who funnel the trucking fee to Alia on AWB 's behalf , Mr Flugge tell the inquiry he do not know at that time the payment be make through an indirect process . 
Meanwhile AWB say grower should be reassure by it decision to wear million of dollar in legal cost relate to the Cole inquiry and the Australian Tax Office . 
The Grains Council of Australia previously call on AWB to confirm that grower would not have to pay the bill out of the national wheat pool . 
AWB 's Brendon Stewart say the wheat exporter 's corporate division will now shoulder the cost . 
`` The key decision that we announce yesterday be around protection the entitlement of the 05/06 pool , the 06/07 pool and importantly the operation of future pool , '' he say . 
`` In term of under a trust structure , [ it ] should give grower all the assurance they need in term of cost that be go to come out of those pool . '' 
AWB have also drop it wheat production forecast to between 12 to 15 million tonne , base on the poor crop condition . 
Grains analyst Malcolm Bartholomaeus say a small winter crop will increase local competition and grower will probably abandon AWB 's pool to take advantage of good domestic price . 

Gold mine set to finally open 
A massive new gold mine at Lake Cowal in central western New South Wales be finally open today , 10 year after it be first propose . 
Environmental concern keep the project on hold . 
The owner and operator of the mine have have to overcome many hurdle to allow today 's opening to take place . 
Lake Cowal be the large inland lake in the state , but be dry most of the time . 
The mine development have be stop several time over cyanide concern , Aboriginal issue and the potential environmental impact . 
The first gold pour take place in April of this year . 
Canadian owner Barrick say 2,010 permanent staff be now employ . 

Water allocation reduce for Murray irrigators mid-season 
For the first time in history , the South Australian Government will reduce water allocation for River Murray irrigators in the middle of the season . 

Govt blast for not help frost-devastated grower 
The Victorian Government be under fire for not provide financial help to region hit by devastate frost earlier this year . 
The Government yesterday announce measure to help fruit grower in the Goulburn Valley , who lose at least half their stonefruit crop to frost earlier this week . 
Back in June , the Murray Valley lose $ 17 million worth of citrus to frost . 
But John Tesoriero , from the Murray Valley Citrus Board , say call for help from grower in his region have go unheeded . 
`` This particular area though the Sunraysia Citrus Growers do write to Minister Cameron request that he come inspect the damage for himself , '' he say . 

Dry weather force Indonesian cattle feedlot to cart water 
The Islamic festival of Ramadan be under way and a prolonged dry in Indonesia be force some cattle feedlots to cart water . 
Stored dam water be disappear quickly for the large importer of Australian cattle . 
But Greg Pankhurst of Agrogiri Perkasa say at least the cattle fatten fast when it be not rain . 
`` Extremely dry , unbelievably dry . We have a wet and dry season like the Top End of Australia , but we have not have rain here now for two month , which be very unusual for the wet season , '' he say . 

Vaile outline trade achievement 
Outgoing Trade Minister Mark Vaile say while world trade talk have be disappointing , he have deliver benefit to farmer . 
Mr Vaile be swap portfolio with Transport Minister Warren Truss today . 
He say put agriculture at the centre of world trade talk , free trade deal with the US and other country , and force Europe to remove some sugar subsidy have be victory . 
`` Achieving that win saw the EU have to remove the export subsidy from 4 million tonne of sugar annually and it have see a significant increase in the global price of sugar , '' he say . 

Minister say battle ahead to meet China FTA deadline 
The Federal Agriculture Minister say Australia have a tough battle ahead to meet the deadline to broker a free trade deal with China . 
The two country have agree to a one to two year timeframe to negotiate the deal , but China be hesitant to give ground on agriculture . 
Peter McGauran have be meet Chinese leader this week to push Australia 's case and say high tariff on Australian farm export must be address . 
`` Prime Minister Howard and Premier Wen a head of government of China have urge all department and minister to set a timetable of one to two year , '' he say . 
`` That be an ambitious undertaking but be one that we strive towards . 

Ban on some rodeo event welcome 
Members of Rodeo Tasmania have welcome ban on some rodeo event under the Tasmanian Government 's proposed new animal cruelty law . 
New law will ban the riding of sheep and poddy calf , while event must have a vet in attendance at all time . 
Rodeo Tasmania 's Annette Reed say the practice know a poddy calf rid and mutton busting be not common in the state . 
`` Very few rodeo run them , we 're not at all upset at the fact that they have go on the chopping block , '' she say . 

Sports lover face big weekend 
It be shape up a a big weekend across the country for sport lover , with four state battle it out in the AFL and NRL season deciders . 
It be a tough weekend for Queensland NRL supporter , face with back the local Brisbane Broncos , or a team full of ex-Queenslanders , Melbourne Storm . 
But there will be no fence sit in the north Queensland community of Nebo . 
`` The Broncos be go to win by at least 12 point and I think the reason they 'll win be they 'll play 80 minute of football right through it , '' one supporter say . 
`` I hope the Broncos win but I think the Storm will do it , they 're just a tough all-round team , '' another say . 
`` I 'll be with my young daughter who 's a Melbourne supporter on the night so I 'll probably have to go for Melbourne if I want a bed for the night , '' a resident say 
`` It 'd have to be the Broncos because their Queenslanders , '' say another . 
In WA , AFL supporter be excite about the chance of the West Coast Eagles in their clash against Sydney . 
This group of country kid from the state 's south reckon the local will do them proud . 
`` I reckon they 'll win by about five point - three point , '' one say . 
`` Just win I reckon - about 10 point , '' say another . 

Ute muster extra special for WA couple 
Thousands of people be head for Deniliquin in southern New South Wales for the national ute muster . 
It will be an extra special trip for Western Australian vegetable grower Rob , who will kick off the weekend by marry his fiance Iris . 
Rob say it be a deep passion and love of ute that bring them together . 
`` We be go to get married before we come on the trip but then one of our friend decide well why do n't you get marry at the ute muster , '' he say . 
`` So we 've organise it for the day before and we 've be down the track a couple of time before and finally we 've sort of met somebody that 's get exactly the same interest , she 's more into the truck than me at time , and well it 's , fun . '' 

Murray water user warn to expect cut 
The Murray Darling Basin Ministerial Council have release dire prediction about future water allocation in the river system . 
With the bad inflow into the Murray River since Federation , high-security water user , who usually receive 100 per cent of their water right , be be warn to expect cut in coming month . 
Jo Haw from the local government-based Murray Darling Association say farmer be sell water right in desperation . 
`` The bottom line be they be do it against every ounce of their fibre , '' she say . 
`` I think people who be put their water right on the market now , some of them be very unwilling seller but they have no choice . 

Wool production drop blame on drought 
The drought be be blame for an estimated 6 per cent drop in wool production across Australia this season . 
Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) say the forecast have fall 27 million kilogram to 434 million , because of a lack of rain , pasture growth , and the fact that there 's no end to the drought in sight . 
Chairman of AWI 's production forecasting committee Dr David James agree it will be a tough season for grower . 
`` Partly it 's due to the fact that feed production will be down , '' he say . 
`` For example ABARE be forecast that cereal production level will be down by about 30 per cent and another concern be in fact the capacity of farmer to provide water to their stock , and on top of that of course there be cash flow factor which will make it difficult . '' 
The dry condition be force many sheep farmer to begin their shear early than normal . 
And the big supply be hurt wool price , with the market suffer it big drop since April . 
Tony Kidman from Quality Wool say many farmer can not afford to store wool until price rise . 
`` We appear to be have less people hold onto wool at this moment , people look for more of a cash flow with their wool , '' he say . 
`` I think the drought condition be force people to shear a bit earlier and sell their sheep a bit earlier than they have in the past . '' 
International factor be also affect wool price . 
Bill Cowley from the Australian Wool Network say the market drop be disappointing , especially when the Australian dollar be weak . 
`` China do most of their business in US dollar and when we see the US currency fall , we would normally see a firm to slightly dearer market here in Australia , but the bid that be come from the Chinese at this particular time be get lower and low , and there 's some resistance to the high price that they be have to pay in the US , '' he say . 

Farmers urge to talk about problem 
Drought-affected farmer be be tell to swallow their pride and ask for help to get through this season . 
Victorian rural outreach worker Ivan Lister say more farmer be seek support than during the 2002 drought . 
He say in many case talk about problem can help . 
`` The word that we use be stay connect and we try to promote that amongst all the community , '' he say . 
`` They 'll either be talk to each other in family situation , talk to the neighbour , ask each other how they 're go . 
`` Be aware that a lot of people be suffer at this time and will continue to struggle . 

Recycling scheme be commission 
Tasmania 's big water recycle scheme be be commission today to provide irrigation water to farm and golf course . 
More than 2,500 megalitres of treated sewage water will be divert from the Derwent River . 
City engineer John Stevens from Clarence Council say the $ 16 million scheme will prevent up to 80 tonne of nitrogen and 25 tonne of phosphorous end up in the river each year . 
He say so far 25 water user have sign up but with the current climate outlook , perception of recycled water be change quickly . 

Fresh concern raise about 3G technology in rural area 
New concern have be raise about the future of mobile phone service in rural Australia , once the current CDMA network be phase out . 
Deputy PM Mark Vaile have warn Telstra he will not accept any deterioration in service , once so-called 3G technology replace the current system . 
The system be to provide broadband Internet and other technology but Telstra say initially , the network might not be that advanced . 
Telecommunications analyst Paul Budde say the 3G system will only be able to provide voice call . 

Publisher seek more flexibility in medium ownership law change 
Australia 's large publisher of rural newspaper be call for more flexibility in cross medium ownership rule . 
The Federal Government be plan to overturn most of the current restriction but maintain some regulation in regional area to ensure a diverse range of medium outlet . 
But John Fairfax , chairman of Rural Press Limited , want to see fundamental change . 

Honeymoon uranium mine get environmental green light 
Final environmental approval have be grant for South Australia 's controversial fourth uranium mine . 
The SA branch of the Environment Protection Authority ( EPA ) have grant licence for both mining and milling of uranium at the Honeymoon mine west of Broken Hill . 
Concerns have be raise about potential ground water contamination from the mine 's plan to extract the mineral from rock use acid . 
But Keith Baldry from the EPA say the process be environmentally sound . 

Nickel price hit record level 
The price of nickel be climb to record level a demand increase and global supply dwindle . 
The base metal have double in price in the past six month and be now fetch almost $ 14 a pound . 

Chicken meat import law review prompt health concern 
A peak poultry group say important human health concern have be ignore in a review of the law govern chicken meat import . 
Biosecurity Australia release a draft import risk analysis into import in June . 
But Dr Andreas Dubs , from the Chicken Meat Federation of Australia , be concern the draft do not exclude country which use 'human ' antibiotic to grow chicken . 
He fear it could lead to consumer develop a resistance to the antibiotic . 
`` In Australia we do n't use antibiotic in animal that be primarily use in human , so , an antibiotic like fluoroquinolone , which be a very important antibiotic a a last weapon in human health , be not allow to be use in Australia , whereas it have be use in a lot of other country , '' he say . 

Rain delay sugar harvest 
Too much rain have delay the sugar harvest in northern New South Wales . 
Mills be face a drop in production , with an unusually wet season make crush difficult and reduce sugar content level . 
Greg Petersen from the Condong Mill near Murwillumbah say the harvest could now drag on until early next year . 
`` This year have be particularly difficult with the amount of lost time we 've have with the wet weather , '' he say . 

Recent frost hit vineyard 
Wine grape grower in Victoria 's high country say their vineyard have be badly damage by recent severe frost . 
The frost , which cause widespread devastation in orchard in the Goulburn Valley , also hit the state 's east . 
Gippsland wine grape grower Howard Reddish say he have lose at least 50 per cent of his grape but it be hard to know the true cost of the damage just yet . 
`` We 're go to have to do something to the vine now to remove the dead and unwanted shoot , '' he say . 

Countries approve global macadamia association 
Macadamia nut grower hope a new global body will ensure other country help to pay for the industry 's research and promotion . 
As the world 's leading producer of macadamia , Australian grower largely foot the bill , but a new global association have be approve by the 25 country which grow the nut . 
Queensland researcher Ian McConachie say it will provide good communication and even out the cost . 

Cane toad help to reduce feral pig , insect number 
Pest animal be have a field day on some farm in the Northern Territory . 
South of Darwin , at Batchelor , one farm be lose at least three tonne of premium champagne melon a year to dingo . 
But fruit grower David Thompson say the arrival of cane toad have reduce feral pig number and insect problem . 
`` It 's a godsend to u in a way because we get a lot of the insect in the garden , because they get a really long tongue on them and they seem to never miss , '' he say . 
`` When they whip their tongue out they get the insect , that 's it . Mainly moth , they will eat cricket and thing like that as well . 

Weed killer suspend because of crop damage 
Authorities have suspend the use of 24 weed killer due to concern about the damage they be cause to horticulture crop . 
Known a 2,4-D short chain ester , the chemical be most commonly use to kill weed in grain crop . 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority say despite control measure to stop spray drift , the chemical can still evaporate and travel long distance . 
Pesticides program manager Eva Bennett Jenkins say chemical company will need to prove their product be safe but until then the horticulture sector need to be protect . 

Shearers seek pay rise 
Australia 's shearer want a 4 per cent wage rise under their federal award . 
The Shearers and Rural Workers Union have recommend a new minimum shearing rate of $ 218.31 per 100 sheep , an increase of around $ 9.00 . 
Shed hand rate would also rise . 
General secretary John Morgan say member have be issue with common law agreement detail the new rate and hop wool grower will be prepare to sign them . 
`` It 's not a great impost on the employer , '' he say . 
`` Some people have suggest that it 's not enough , but at the same time we recognise wool grower be n't get a fair deal in relation to their wool price and we understand that . 
`` But they seem to forget that our people have get to travel large distance to get to their place of employment at great cost and we 've get to be remunerate for our labour and our cost . '' 
The industry be refuse to comment on the change . 
Meanwhile shearer across Australia be benefit from a price war for their tool of the trade . 
The price of comb and cutter have be cut by up to a third and the price of some new handpieces on the market be half that of establish brand 
Queensland shear contractor Ian Bateman say he be happy about competition come from China . 
`` I think it 's a good thing , for the simple fact be , it 's like anything else , if anybody get a monopoly , they just seem to charge or do whatever they want to do and I reckon the third company into the business will definitely make the other company brighten their foot work up , '' he say . 

Australia 's highway below standard : survey 
The first independent audit of the nation 's highway show half be below standard and may be unsafe to drive on . 
The Australian Automobile Association survey 18,000 kilometre of the national highway in all state except New South Wales and give each one a star rating . 
Worst on the list be the Bruce Highway on Queensland 's Sunshine Coast and the Calder Highway in Victoria between Bendigo and Kyneton . 
The association 's executive director , Lachlan Macintosh , say half of the highway be rat three star and more likely to cause death . 
`` In a three star road there be still some deficiency in the road feature ; poor median protection , perhaps too many intersection per kilometre of road , poorly design curve , not enough marking on the road , '' he say . 
`` So those three star road could be well , we could see some pretty inexpensive treatment to make them good and that 's fairly important . '' 

Telstra to consider objection when decide on country pay phone 
Telstra say it can not guarantee that some country community will not lose their pay phone . 
The company say it be permit to remove some phone which be be underused and have agreement from the Federal Government . 
But Jeff Booth from Telstra Countrywide say local objection will be consider . 
`` Where there be very , very low call rate , like one call per month or something similar , and where it 's cost thousand of dollar to maintain a pay phone we 'd probably use our discretion in that regard , '' he say . 

Truss expect to discuss trade issue from Aust 
Australia 's new Trade Minister Warren Truss say he expect to travel far less than his predecessor Mark Vaile . 
Mr Vaile have leave the trade position to focus on transport and domestic issue surround the future of the Nationals . 
Mr Truss say he be hop he can do far more future trade negotiation from Australia . 
`` It will be necessary to talk to people in other part of the world but I still regard very much my responsibility to my own electorate , to the people of Australia a a high priority , '' he say . 

Rot destroy pink lady export 
An unusual fruit skin condition not see in Australia before be hurt exporter of pink lady apple from Western Australia . 
The rot have destroy about 40 per cent of this year 's export to the United Kingdom and there be fear more could be reject in a shipment of 800 tonne of fruit currently on it way . 
Experts from Australia and the UK say they have never see brown this early in the season and be try to find what be cause it . 
Angelo Logiudice from the WA Apple and Pear Council say it have have a huge impact . 
`` In real term 35 to 40 per cent loss after pack be huge loss because you 've already sustain some loss a you be sort fruit for export packing , so this be go to be huge for grower , '' he say . 

NT mango grower seek alternative transport method 
Despite the Top End 's heat and humidity , some grower be consider send mango to market without refrigeration . 
A shortage of refrigeration truck mean grower might have to consider send fruit south overnight when temperature be cooler . 
The Horticultural Association 's Tracey Leo say it be high risk and will only be use a a last resort . 
`` We have predict a shortfall of about 125 van in the peak of the season , when melon and mango be come in , in their peak , '' she say . 
`` You know the tree be come into high production , we be go to be look at high volume and the availability of refrigerated truck in the Territory be always go to be an issue . So any transport method that we can look into be good . '' 

Reef review recommendation disappoint fisherman 
Commercial operator near the Great Barrier Reef be disappoint with a recommendation that fish ban remain in place for another seven year . 
The federal review follow industry anger at be ban from fish a third of the reef two year ago to protect fish stock . 
The review say there should be no change to the ban , which have anger Russell Anderson from the Queensland Seafood Industry Association . 

Rock lobster price hit 5-year high 
Prices for rock lobster in the southern fishing zone have hit a five year high just day after the opening of the season . 
Along the South Australian coast from Robe to Port Macdonnell price range between $ 40 and $ 48 a kilogram , nearly $ 10 high than this time last year . 
Lionel Carrison , from the South East Professional Fishermen 's Association , say supply be low at this time of year , but the high price be not expect to last . 
`` I guess everybody be anxious for new supply , '' he say . 

Website to help drought-stricken farmer 
A website be be launch for drought-stricken farmer in Victoria to help each other through the summer . 
Farmers will be able to use the Internet to advertise available feed or labour with the site expect to be up and run within two week . 
Doug Chant from the United Dairyfarmers of Victoria say the site will put farmer in touch with a wide network of people and resource . 
`` Basically it will be fee that will be available , farmer that have fee whether it be hay , silage , grain , will have the opportunity of put it on the web , '' he say . 
`` Anything to do with help farmer through these very difficult time , it give other farmer in other part of the state the opportunity of be able to help out . '' 

Sheep take over Hay street 
A mob of 1,500 sheep have take over the main street of Hay , in western New South Wales this morning , re-enacting boom time in the wool industry . 
The sheep be need for the Australian Shearing and Woolhandling Championships at the end of the week and rather than truck them in organiser have decide to re-live a part of the town 's history . 
ShearOutback director Kim Biggs say the spectacle have not be see for more than 70 year . 

Shearer set unofficial world record 
A South Australian shearer have set an unofficial world record by shear 1,054 merino lamb in 40 hour . 
Gary Hebberman from Jamestown , in the state 's mid-north , use the marathon to raise money for his local sporting complex and a childhood cancer charity . 
While previous record attempt have feature cross breed lambs , he choose merino , because that be what he be use to shear . 
`` I be bring up on merino , so it make it a bit easy for me , '' he say . 
`` It be hard , never ever be do in merino lamb before , it 's be do in cross breds , so we just go with it , run with it and see how we go . I do n't look back . '' 

Govt promise major farm policy change 
The Federal Government have promise major change to future farm policy in Australia . 
It have accept 52 recommendation make by the Corish Report earlier this year , include world trade , biosecurity , food standard , drought preparation and land and water management . 
Three recommendation be reject , include tax concession for rural area , import unskilled migrant worker and centralise power over transport infrastructure . 
Despite those knock back , head of the review Peter Corish say it be a landmark win . 

Live cattle export to Egypt to resume 
Australia 's peak livestock industry body have welcome an agreement to resume live cattle export to Egypt . 
Shipments be halt after the broadcast of footage of cattle have their tendon slash to restrain them at an Egyptian abattoir . 
The Australian and Egyptian government have sign an agreement to track all Australian cattle until they be slaughter at three abattoir . 
At the abattoir where the cattle be film , Minister for Agriculture Peter McGauran say an oversee will be appoint to ensure Australian standard be meet . 

Cash income for beef producer halve 
A new report say the cash income for beef producer have be halve in the past financial year . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) say the figure reflect a trend for producer to hold off sell large number of cattle in 2005-06 . 
Rhonda Treadwell from ABARE 'S farm survey and analysis branch say producer have be attempt to build up herd number . 
`` Essentially the farm cash income have fall quite considerably and that be mainly because of the incredibly big build up of cattle number across a lot of beef cattle property , so their profit have n't fall as much a their cash income , '' she say . 
But those attempt to build up herd be now be thwart by the on-going drought , with producer start to sell large number of cattle . 
In north-west New South Wales , producer Graham Wilson say his great worry be find enough water for his cattle . 
`` We have n't have any inflow into our dam for over 12 month and we 're get very critical , '' he say . 
`` Our bore on average have go from about 800-900 gallon an hour down to 200 gallon an hour . 
`` We need about 40,000 litre of water a day . 

Wool grower unenthusiastic about shearer ' propose wage rise 
Wool grower say they be not keen to support a propose 4 per cent increase to shearer ' wage . 
The Shearers and Rural Workers Union say it have recommend `` modest '' new rate , with a $ 9 increase per 100 sheep . 
Growers will be ask to sign common law agreement to pay the new rate from October 31 . 
But the executive director of WoolProducers , Greg Weller , say grower need to remember that the rise be not set in concrete . 
`` They 're entitle to be able to put forward a view to their member on what they believe should be the appropriate rate , '' he say . 
`` And I do n't think it 's helpful for either shearer , and particularly wool grower , if there 's a suggestion that there be some rate out there other than what 's actually in the award . 

New licence to double SA oil , gas exploration area 
The area under exploration for new oil and gas deposit in South Australia will double , after the approval of eight new exploration licence . 
The exploration area will increase to 140,000 square kilometre , include the Arckaringa Basin near Coober Pedy in the far north . 
The company SAPEX have be award the licence and manage director Andrew Andrejewskis say any find will help other mining project . 
`` We 're look at the major resource project that be occur in that general vicinity , '' he say 

Chemical ban will see return to old-fashioned farming : grain grower 
Grain grower say they will be force to return to old-fashioned and inefficient farming method , due to a new chemical ban . 
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority have ban the use of 24 weed killer contain chemical know a 2,4-D short chain ester , due to concern about contamination of vineyard and horticultural crop . 
Garry Hansen from the South Australian Farmers Federation say grain grower will be force to use more expensive chemical , which they can not afford in the current climate . 

Fodder shortage start to show in key grow region 
There be more evidence of a looming shortage of fodder , due to dry condition in the nation 's key grow region . 
The Australian Fodder Industry Association say apart from the north coast of New South Wales and part of Queensland hay crop need a good drink . 
Executive officer Colin Peace say some grain and canola crop be be bale , but overall production will be down . 
`` The lucerne hay be go to be like hen teeth because there 's not the irrigation water that there be say after the last 02/03 drought , '' he say . 
`` That would be well into the $ 200 per tonne on farm . 

Demand for water tank increase 
The drought be also increase demand for water tank from farmer . 
They be not be use to collect rainwater , but to hold water be truck in to property across Victoria , New South Wales , Queensland and South Australia . 
Ross Hendy from Tankworld in north-west Victoria say around 250 tank be be sell each week , and there be a six-week wait for them . 

New irrigation model save water 
A water cooperative in Western Australia be be hold up a a model example for the irrigation sector . 
The Harvey Water Cooperative in south-west Western Australia have replace open irrigation channel with pipe , create water saving of about 25 per cent each year . 
The saved water be pip to Perth to be use in the urban area . 
Dan Norton have be name Rural Achiever of the Year at the Royal Show for his contribution to the cooperative , and he hop others can benefit from the project . 
`` By pip the system and eliminate the irrigation channel you cut those loss by 25-30 per cent , which be [ the ] world 's best practice for an open channel system , '' he say . 

Global demand boost export of dairy goat 
Growing global demand for dairy product be help to boost export of Australian dairy goat . 
Argentina and Mexico have be big buyer to expand their local goat milk industry . 
Now demand be emerge from Asia , Yemen and Papua New Guinea . 
Jane Hewlett from Tasmania 's Dairy Goat Society say there be a grow acceptance of dairy food , particularly in Taiwan and China . 
`` Originally dairy product be not high on their list of food , '' she say . 

North-west WA worry about biosecurity risk 
In far north Western Australia , farmer who want to develop new luxury bed and breakfast accommodation in the Ord River irrigation area will now have to take biosecurity risk into account . 
The Shire of Wyndham East Kimberley be amend it Town Planning Act to protect the region 's agriculture , which be highly regarded because of it isolation . 
It be worry about the threat of pest and disease that could be bring in by tourist . 
Vaughan Davies from Tourism Western Australia say it be the first time biosecurity have play such a major role . 

Australian consortium launch new beef marketing strategy 
A big push into 4,000 Japanese supermarket have be launch by Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) and the Australian Agricultural Company . 
Qantas and Wolf Blass be also join the marketing strategy , to promote Aussie beef in the lead-up to Christmas . 
MLA 's manage director David Palmer say it be a unique marketing plan to snare ongoing commitment from tough Japanese consumer , and fight off competition from the US . 
`` It 's an initiative to help continue to drive that loyalty , to help to continue to hold shelf space here in the Japanese retail market , '' he say . 

Pollen from feral olive can cause 'severe respiratory problem ' 
The expansion of olive production across the country could be lead to human health problem . 
The Cooperative Research Centre for Australian Weed Management say leave fruit on tree after harvest be cause feral olive to spread outside the grove . 
Chief executive Rachel McFadyen say the pollen from feral olive can cause severe respiratory problem . 
`` Olive pollen be quite a severe allergen , that 's to say if people breath it they develop an allergy to it , and then they start to suffer from hay fever and sinusitis and eventually perhaps asthma , '' she say . 

Govt have no major greenhouse gas strategy : expert 
A leading climate change expert have tell a summit on alternative fuel that the Federal Government have no far reach strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emission . 
The former head of atmospheric research at the CSIRO , Dr Graeme Pearman , say Australia will face grow international pressure to meet target and it do not have any in place . 
The NRMA be push for an alternative fuel task force , challenge the Government to fund it . 
Dr Pearman say if politician do not set aside their electoral aspiration , Australia face an immediate crisis . 

Ex-NFF bos considers enter federal politics 
The former president of the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) , Peter Corish , have confirm he be think about run a a candidate in next year 's federal election . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the Nationals would welcome the former leader , but Mr Corish say he be yet to make up his mind . 
He believe it would be logical to run in the new New South Wales seat which incorporate the seat hold by former deputy PM John Anderson . 
The National party have welcome an apparent softening in the Federal Government 's plan to allow great power for cross-media ownership in rural area . 
Communications Minister Helen Coonan say she be prepared to listen to propose change to the new ownership law , to ensure radio , television and newspaper be not own by one company in the same region . 
Nationals ' MP Paul Neville say member be hop to convince the Minister to protect rural medium . 

Farmers air mining worry 
The search for copper , cobalt , nickel and uranium near the Northern Territory town of Batchelor be worry some local farmer . 
Compass Resources have revive exploration near the town , originally build to service the nation 's first uranium mine , Rum Jungle , in the 1950s . 
Small rural block have be develop since then , include a commercial vegetable and fruit farm . 
Compass 's community manager Tracker Tilmouth say they have yet to reach agreement over how to share resource , include water . 
`` Because of where the mine be locate we have a very large water supply that we have to de-water , so we will be look at a whole range of activity that we can complement their water supply or whatever , '' he say . 

Barrick up-beat about gold price rise 
The price of gold have slip yet again overnight , but the world 's big gold miner remain confident about the long-term market . 
Barrick Gold Corporation be stand by it prediction of a gold price of $ US700 an ounce by the end of the year . 
That be a fair way above the current price of $ US566 . 
But chief executive Greg Wilkins say not enough gold be be produce globally to replace current reserve , which should drive the price back up . 
`` Clearly one of the challenge for the industry and for the viability be try to manage the cost , '' he say . 
`` If gold price come back down below $ 500 an ounce it wo n't take all that long for the supply side to shrink more rapidly than we 're see today which in turn I think would have positive impact and bring the price back up . 

Beefed up price record at Rockhampton bull sale 
Australia 's big bull sale have attract record price and a clearance rate of 98 per cent . 
The sale at Rockhampton , in central Queensland , finish last night , with more than 1,000 bull fetch nearly $ 6.5 million over three day . 
The top sale of $ 90,000 be pay for both a grey and a red brahman bull . 
John Croaker from the Australian Brahman Breeders Association say it be the result of year of work . 
`` They have certainly invest in the breeding herd and the genetics that they be use and it be certainly pay off , '' he say . 

SA grain harvest begin early 
The grain harvest have start two week early in South Australia this year because of the lack of spring rain . 
Ian Mudge from Telowie , near Port Pirie , have reap 300 hectare of pea and barley so far and say despite very low yield , the grain be of reasonable quality . 
However , he say not all of his crop will be worth harvest and expect to be finish well before Christmas . 
`` I reckon we 'll have most of November and December off . I think it 's just one of those year that we 'll just chalk up to experience and forget about and zip back next year and have another go , '' he say . 
On the far west coast of the Eyre Peninsula , the Thevenard silo have also report it first delivery of oat . 
Meanwhile , the estimate value of South Australia 's crop production have be slash to $ 600 million , about half of what it be last year . 
The grim outlook have prompt ABB Grain to close at least two silo over summer . 
And operation manager Peter Weaver say other silo throughout the state could be add to the list . 

Rice grower promise record price to plant 
Australian rice grower be be guarantee a record price of $ 320 a tonne to plant a crop this year . 
The author of a new book on way to good manage water say all user should have to account for the way they use the resource . 
John Pigram , a Professor of water policy at the University of New England in New South Wales , say farmer have already be force to improve their efficiency to make the most of low commodity price . 
He be call for a national audit system to force user to justify their water allocation . 
`` Whether that be for irrigation , for industry , for a wetland , or a brewery , [ they have ] ... to be accountable for it use , '' he say . 

Bunnings at centre of grapevine quarantine concern 
Giant hardware chain Bunnings could face prosecution for allegedly bring grapevine into South Australia from a phylloxera risk area in Victoria . 
Phylloxera , aphid-type insect that attack and kill grapevine , be not present in SA . 
The Department of Primary Industries say 122 grapevine be find in four Adelaide Bunnings store . 
Spokesman David Cartwright say any breach of quarantine condition could put the state 's $ 2 billion wine industry at risk . 

Tough condition may halve Barossa crop 
South Australia 's famous Barossa wine region could only harvest half it normal volume of grape this vintage . 
A major frost this week have damage bud vine and come on top of a lack of rain and reduced water entitlement . 
Bob Taplin from the Barossa Winegrape Growers Association say while low yield might help to reduce the industry 's grape glut , it will not help grower because price be set to stay low . 

Reduced canola crop prediction may see oil seed import 
A forecast of the small canola crop in more than a decade have prompt speculation that local crusher will import oil seed from Canada . 
Grain analyst Malcolm Bartholomaeus say there be likely to be a shortfall between Australian production and customer demand . 
He say with canola $ 90 a tonne cheaper in Canada , crusher might look there to fill the gap . 
`` One of the consideration be plant utilisation , so import the canola would be attractive from that perspective , '' he say . 
`` Also what 's the value of the oil come out and canola oil be reasonably highly price at the moment , particularly with the underlie biodiesel demand - then you look at the demand and the price that might be achieve for the meal and at the moment there 's certainly go to be domestic outlet for canola meal in Australia with the current feed situation out of this drought . '' 

Number of rural financial counsellor to be cut 
Rural financial counsellor say they will have to cut staff because the Federal Government 's late round of funding do not go far enough . 
The Federal Government top up funding for the scheme by $ 10 million in the last Budget and the new program kick off this month . 
But Louise McArthur from the National Association of Rural Counselling Services say a number of counsellor will be lose in every state because the money will only fill fund shortfall . 
`` It be slash hugely , but there 's be no negotiation regard that and I think this have be the big issue right across the country , '' she say . 
`` That from the region and the state we 've put in what we think be an applicable appropriate number of counsellor , but we have n't be able to fund that level of counsellor and with the climate change and condition across Australia our demand be go to become great not lesser . '' 

Commercial fisherman find it difficult to sell boat 
The fishing industry be have trouble sell it commercial fishing boat , in the wake of a federal buyback of more than 400 licence around Australia . 
In the major southern port of Eden in New South Wales a $ 2 million vessel be on the market for just $ 200,000 . 
Processor and boat owner Titch Rodahl have accept a buyout package and have sell his boat at 1 per cent of it value . 
With the buyout , it 's not viable to stay open with the overhead and all that sort of stuff , it 's not worth run the boat , '' he say . 
`` I sort of give my boat away because I get pay for it in the buyout . 
`` Three year ago I buy the vessel for $ 210,000 . 

Tas shellfish industry consolidate 
Tasmania 's shellfish industry be face significant generational change , with many family operation sell up or merging . 
Richard Pugh , the general manager of Shellfish Cultures , say Tasmania 's oyster industry be now more than 30 year old and many farmer be reach retirement age . 
He say a cost price squeeze and the difficulty of recruit new farmer be lead a push towards consolidation . 
`` Farms [ be ] just move towards get economy of scale , '' he say . 
`` We 're find that we 're get a lot of cost squeeze happen , price be not rise very quickly . 

AWB release grain stock onto domestic market 
With many grain crop fail around the country , AWB International have start to release large stock of grain onto the domestic market . 
The feedlot and milling industry have be bid strongly for the grain , with wheat future on the Stock Exchange hit more than $ 300 a tonne this week . 
The chairman of AWB International , Ian Donges , say the company will also open up a number of silo for producer to buy grain for their livestock . 
Mr Donges say AWB still have large supply of wheat . 
`` The budget have be around four to 5 million tonne , '' he say . 
`` We have get to realise that wheat of course be spread across Australia . 

Grain grower expect above average yield 
While grain grower across the country watch their crop die , one small group of grower be set to reap at least average yield , in one of the most unlikely spot . 
Farms in the Nundroo and Coorabie district of South Australia , near the Nullarbor Plain in the state 's far west , have good summer rain , which be follow up in April . 
Local farmer Peter Stott say some paddock have have above average rain . 
`` We 'll go close to an average season hopefully , '' he say . 
`` We seem to have cop a little bit more rainfall here , especially towards the coast . 

Pastoralists appeal for lease payment waiver 
Pastoralists in central Australia be ask the Northern Territory Government to waive their annual lease payment , a they struggle with the prolonged drought . 
The Cattlemen 's Association say the payment for 12 drought declare station be worth up to $ 100,000 . 
The station have be unable to receive the Federal Government 's exceptional circumstance assistance due to mean test and the absence of specific application guideline for the Northern Territory desert . 
Vanessa Smith of Newcrowne Station , south-east of Alice Springs , say urgent help be need to lighten the grow financial burden . 
`` Everything help , absolutely everything help , whether they waive pastoral lease payment , you know anything , '' she say . 
`` We pay $ 8,000 for our lease . 
`` That money could go elsewhere . 

Govt aim to refocus some drought funding 
The Federal Agriculture Minister say the Government hop in future to refocus some of it drought funding towards help farmer to be well prepare for dry period . 
Peter McGauran say the Government be not plan to withdraw it current drought assistance , but say the most efficient farmer should be support . 
`` Do n't read into that that we 're go to abolish interest rate subsidy , '' he say . 

High quality wool a hit at Sydney , Melbourne market 
The sale of high quality ultrafine wool in Melbourne and Sydney be the highlight of a fairly lacklustre week in the wool market . 
A top price of 65,500 cent a kilogram be pay at the Sydney sale , with Italian buyer dominate the bidding . 
On a wider note , the eastern market indicator fell two cent to 737 cent a kilogram clean . 
More than 65,000 bale will be offer next week , include 5,000 bale from New Zealand . 

Rural worker at high risk of sperm DNA damage : scientist 
There be a claim today that men who work regularly with pesticide be likely to face difficulty father child . 
A scientist at the University of Adelaide 's Centre for Reproductive Health have be research the damaging affect of chemical on sperm DNA . 
Dr Michelle Lane say rural worker be in a high risk group . 
`` We have find a clustering in some occupation with men with high DNA damage and it 's often associate with men that might come in to exposure with thing such a pesticide or solvent and thing like that , '' she say . 

Farmers brace for locust plague 
Victorian farmer be brace for another summer of locust plague , with hatching set to begin this week . 
The Department of Primary Industries ( DPI ) have set up portable work station so more staff can be send to wherever the plague be most severe . 
Dr Malcolm Campbell from the DPI say the need for increased resource be the key lesson from last year 's plague . 

Irrigators accreditation course to help improve image 
For the first time , a national accreditation course will be available for irrigators to help improve their image a water user . 
The Irrigation Association of Australia have introduce the national industry standard , which cover five minimum skill that people need to work in the sector . 
Farmers who have take part in other train scheme can also gain accreditation . 
Chief executive Jolyon Burnett hop it will reduce inefficient water management practice . 
`` Many farmer be still schedule their irrigation by the tried and true old method of wander out into the paddock , kick the dirt , have a look to see how moist it be and then make a subjective judgment on how much water to apply , '' he say . 

Country people set example for water-smart gardening 
City gardener face strict water restriction this summer could learn a lesson from their rural counterpart . 
Frankie Wilkinson , from the South Australian-based Plant People Nursery , say her rural customer have always make water-smart purchase . 
She say while drought be affect many farm community , it do not mean their garden be turn into dust . 
`` Country people on the whole we find have always water at night , or first thing in the morning , they 've always mulch and this be something that I think suburban people be begin to learn and be do a lot more than they use to , '' she say . 

Rural Australia to wait for access to $ 1b broadband network 
Telstra have switch on it new $ 1 billion mobile broadband network at an investor briefing in Sydney . 
But it will be quite some time before all regional Australians can use it . 
Chief executive Sol Trujillo say the network be 100 time great than any of it competitor and will reach 98 per cent of the Australian population . 
However group general manager of Telstra Country Wide Geoff Booth say full access for rural Australia will not be possible until more tower be build . 
`` Wherever there be now mobile cover we 'll have a broadband product , so we 're go to be able to resolve a lot of those so-called dead spot in term of broadband , '' he say . 

Govt vow $ 50m for rural mental health clinic 
The Federal Government have offer another $ 50 million in funding for mental health clinic in rural area . 
The Prime Minister , John Howard , say it will help double the level of access to mental health professional for country resident . 
Mr Howard say his government will also spend $ 500 million expand the Medicare Rebate system , so that more people can get mental health service through GPs , psychiatrist and psychologist . 
Mr Howard say it be part of a $ 1.6 billion program launch with state government earlier this year . 
`` We will be commit some $ 51.7 million over five year to target area of need by fund organisation like division of general practice and Aboriginal medical service to establish and run mental health clinical service in rural and remote community . '' 

Depression fear 
The Grains Council of Australia say it be very concerned there will be an upsurge in depression rate a the drought tighten it grip on many state . 
It estimate the country 's 30,000 grain and mixed farmer will lose an average of $ 150,000 each on their barley and wheat crop . 
Council chairman Murray Jones be urge farmer to seek help if they be not cop . 
`` I 'm sure that this push a lot of people to the edge , '' he say . 
`` These be circumstance which be quite beyond their control and we 're just concern that a lot of these farm family will have some severe psychological effect on this and they need to get help if it 's necessary . '' 

Funding cut 
The cutting of fund to rural financial counselling service across Australia have come in for some strong criticism from a mental health body . 
State and federal government have be argue over the funding , with some state threaten service cut unless the Federal Government provide more money . 
Professor Brian Kelly , from the NSW Centre for Rural And Remote Mental Health , say financial counsellor be irreplaceable during the drought . 
`` They 're the people who be often consult by farmer about manage the business , manage the pressure they face in farming , '' he say . 

Landcare conference to focus on climate change 
Climate change be high on the agenda at this week 's International Landcare Conference , which have open in Melbourne . 
More than 1,000 farmer in Landcare , academic and representative from natural resource group from Australia and across the globe have converge on Melbourne , for the week-long conference . 
The theme for the conference be `` build communication network to create future landscape , lifestyle and livelihood '' . 
Top of the agenda be climate change and the balance between agriculture and the environment . 
Kicking off proceeding today be Land and Water Australia 's chairman , Bobbie Brazil , look at if Landcare be an ancient myth or modern dreaming . 
Landcare leader will be recognise for their work at tomorrow night 's National Landcare award , present by the Governor-General Major General Michael Jeffery . 
A Canadian environmental lobbyist have tell the Landcare conference that Australia would not be in a drought at all , if people use water more wisely . 
Maude Barlow , who be write a book call the Global fight for the right to water , say Australians need to change their attitude towards water saving . 
`` I think the current drought situation be a reflection of over use and abuse of water , '' she say . 

Hundreds take oil concern to Canberra 
About a thousand people turn out in Canberra yesterday to send a message to the Federal Government that it need to take urgent action to address climate change . 
The word Clean Energy for Eternity be spell out across Reconciliation Place . 
Organiser Dr Matthew Nott , an orthopaedic surgeon from Bega , say that one of the critical problem face rural community , which be dependent on road transport , be oil depletion . 
`` Petrol 's go to become much more expensive in the near future , we 're go to be force to become more self sufficient . and that be go to become more and more difficult a we get hot and drier , '' Dr Nott say . 

Perseverance make $ 46 mill offer to Leviathan 
Victoria could host Australia 's second large gold producer follow a takeover offer for Leviathan Resources by Perseverance Corporation . 
The bid by Perseverance be worth $ 46 million , value each Leviathan share at about 56 cent . 
Perseverance intend to close Leviathan 's Melbourne office and move some staff and equipment from Leviathan 's Stawell Gold Mine to Perseverance 's Fosterville gold mine , near Bendigo . 
Managing director Graeme Sloan say if accept , the offer will deliver big benefit to Perseverance shareholder . 
`` We 'll have the large landholding in Victoria , very close to 6,000 square kilometre , which be quite extraordinary give the state that the large be Newcrest , '' he say . 

Media law debate on hold 
A Senate debate on the Federal Government 's controversial medium law have be delay until tomorrow , while Communications Minister Helen Coonan continue meeting with dissent backbench Coalition MPs and senator . 
National party member be also meet today , after Senators Barnaby Joyce and Fiona Nash indicate they could block the legislation in it current form . 

Pulp mill development head for court 
Landholders oppose a $ 650 million pulp mill development in South Australia will take their case to the court . 
The development , near Penola in the state 's south-east , be conditionally approve by the South Australian Government last month , subject to further check by the Environmental Protection Agency . 
Lawyer Peter Humphries , act for 30 landholder , say he will be ask the Supreme Court to review all aspect of the application process . 
`` There 's be no environmental impact study do , '' he say . 

Hobby farmer buy up along cattle route 
Confidence in the cattle sector be attract drove of hobby farmer to purchase stock along Queensland 's central coast . 
People be snap up small parcel of former sugarcane farm and be choose cattle , due to their relatively low maintenance requirement . 
Smaller saleyards in central Queensland be on track to smash annual yarding record and Elders Livestock Agent , Matthew Lockwood , from Mackay , say he can not see the trend slow down . 
`` As the country get break up around the agricultural area people do find that put a fence up and cattle be pretty easy to handy and run , '' Mr Lockwood say . 

WA harvest off to early start 
Harvest have kick off in Western Australia much early than normal because of a dry finish to the season . 
The first canola delivery to the state 's main grain handler , Cooperative Bulk Handling , be make on the weekend in Esperance . 
Farmer Gavin Egan say harvest would have be a few week later if there have be more spring rain . 
`` It 's be pretty dry here the last three month , pretty well , we be lucky to get a bit of rain at the start of September which pull u out of it a little bit , but definitely dry off rapidly , '' he say . 

Grape vine strip a drought continue 
In far western New South Wales , a table grape grower be strip healthy vine to keep them alive , with the Menindee Lakes system at just 15 per cent capacity . 
Menindee irrigator Paul D'Ettorre say if big rain do not come by March , he face the prospect of walk away from his family 's 60-year-old farm . 
While he expect table grape price to remain steady for the season , Mr D'Ettore say the long-term future be uncertain . 
`` We will be okay as long a we keep get the top-up rain , but we keep fall back , '' he say . 

Mango price drop a harvest pick up 
The price of a tray of mango have halve in the past fortnight , a the Northern Territory harvest get into full swing . 
The Docking family , who be base on the fringe of Darwin 's rural area at Berry Springs , be make the most of dry early build-up weather . 
It can be blisteringly hot , up to 35 degree in the shade , with humidity easily 80 per cent at picking . 
But so far , 3,000 tray of mango have be pluck from their orchard . 
That be compare to 220,000 tray across all of Darwin . 
Strong wind have scratch the surface of some fruit , increase the amount of second and the early premium price have already fall away , to below $ 30 a tray in the Sydney market . 

Tassie team take out shear championship 
In just it third year of compete , Tasmania have win the team 's event at the national shearing championship , in Hay , NSW , at the weekend . 
The Tasmanians take out the trophy at Hay on the weekend , beat Western Australia by more than 30 point . 
Team member Steve Rigby say the island state 's success be remarkable , give it inexperience . 
`` Just three year up and run and to beat you know the other state of Australia that have be compete for a lot long than we have ... it 's a real surprise , '' he say . 
`` Not only have we get some of the best wool in Australia we 've get the some of the best shearer and shed hand . '' 

Water sensor may cut irrigation loss significantly 
An irrigation expert say multi-million dollar project use water sensor could cut irrigation loss by between 10 and 20 per cent across Australia . 
That be equivalent to all the water use in urban area . 
John Langford , director of the Water Research Centre at the University of Melbourne , say the first year of trial have be complete and indication be that it could halve the cost of irrigation efficiency program . 
`` It involve a unit call a nictor , which would be about the size of a coffee pot , you can dot them around at random in the landscape , so long a they be close enough to each other they will form their own wireless network , '' he say . 

Council seek funding for annual store grain survey 
The Grains Council of Australia say an annual survey of stored grain be need to stop livestock farmer panic-buying overseas during drought . 
It want both federal government research body , like the Grains Research and Development Corporation and the livestock industry , to pay $ 50,000 a year for the survey . 
Grains Council chairman Murray Jones say livestock farmer need to be make aware that domestic grain be still cheap than import grain . 
`` [ The ] Grains Council of Australia support the livestock industry who 've be ask for an indication of a clear picture of the availability of grain stock , '' he say . 
`` I think it 's important , both from the livestock industry and from farmer as well , that we have some some record of the great transparency of the grain at hand . '' 
Meanwhile the worsening dry in southern and central New South Wales will lead to job loss at Graincorp . 
The large east coast grain handler believe it will only open two third of it silo and dramatically cut it casual staff . 
Graincorp 's central regional manager Murray Wilkinson say the company do not have an option but to reduce it cost a the crop dwindles by the day . 

Farm-related industry brace for disaster : NFF 
The late Westpac-NFF rural commodity index show a 1.7 per cent fall on the previous month , amid a drop in beef price and prediction farm income will halve in the coming year . 
National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) vice-president Charles Burke say the figure show it would be short-sighted to dismiss drought a just a problem for farmer . 

Drought expect to cut cotton production 
Analysts be predict cotton grower this season will plant Australia 's small crop in nearly 20 year . 
Independent Commodity Management 's Matthew Leeson say a range of factor , include the drought , will cut production to about 1 million bale . 
He say the commodity 's subdue price be also significant . 
`` Compounding the marginal moisture availability be poor price for cotton versus the well above average price for the feed grain due to the shortfall from the winter cereal crop this year , '' he say . 

Farming region run out of water 
One of Victoria 's wet farming region be run out of water . 
The water storage at Leongatha , in Gippsland , be at 24 per cent and fall and resident be on stage four water restriction . 
South Gippsland Water be audit local business , include the major dairy processing plant Murray Goulburn , to see if their water use can be reduce . 
Meanwhile oil tanker could ship Tasmanian water to the mainland under a new proposal . 
Environment company Solar Sailer will propose harvest fresh water from a number of site in the state 's north , when it meet the Tasmanian Government next month . 
The company 's Robert Dane say selling water to major city could prove a lucrative industry . 

Wine export to UK drop 
Australian wine export have slip to their low level in 16 year , with sale to the UK down 3 per cent . 
The late data from the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation also show the average price per litre of $ 3.77 be the low in nearly a decade . 
But cheap bulk shipment to China be outstrip all other market , increase fivefold to 16 million litre . 
The corporation 's Lawrie Stanford say the wine glut and foreign exchange issue be partly to blame and the outlook be not good . 
`` The Australian wine sector be clearly oversupplied at the moment and whilst volume be grow on the back of principally bulk sale , price be clearly fall a a result , '' he say . 

Frost decimate Limestone Coast vineyard 
After frost earlier hit the Barossa Valley , they have now decimate vineyard along the Limestone Coast of South Australia , wipe million off the value of this year 's vintage . 
The region that 's famous for it full blood red wine could lose most of this year 's grape crop after the temperature drop below minus three for the second morning in a row . 
Damage have be most severe in the Padthaway Valley . 
Grower Ian Ward say he have lose about 90 per cent of his crop . 
`` I 've get a couple of neighbour who be a hundred per cent affect , I have another neighbour who might be only something like 10 per cent [ affect and get off pretty lightly , '' he say . 

Rural doctor push for fly-in , fly-out mental health worker 
The Rural Doctors Association of Australia say the federal and state government need to fund fly-in , fly-out mental health worker to deal with a major shortage in regional and remote area . 
It say the Federal Government 's announcement yesterday that it be expand access to mental health staff under Medicare and set up new rural clinic will not work if staff can not be persuade to go to the bush . 
Association president Dr Ross Maxwell say while more psychologist and psychiatrist need to be train , it still would not be enough to fix the rural shortfall . 

Urgent talk need to reassure North Asian trade partner : Opposition 
The Federal Opposition say the diplomatic row over North Korea 's claimed nuclear weapon test will have to be carefully defuse to prevent Australia 's trade into North Asia be disrupt . 
The Government say it be look to the UN Security Council to take action against North Korea . 
The Opposition 's trade spokesman , Kevin Rudd , say China , Taiwan , Japan and South Korea buy $ 70 billion of commodity and product from Australia , and urgent talk be need to reassure them . 

Scientists pool resource to look at illegal fish impact on shark 
The impact of illegal fishing upon shark in north Australian water be be study , a part of a new research collaboration . 
Marine scientist be pool resource at Darwin 's Arafura Timor Research Facility which have cost $ 3.5 million to build . 
Chief executive officer Stuart Fitch say the laboratory allow advanced genetic fingerprinting of marine material , include seize shark fin . 
`` This be a genetic sequencing analyser or a most people would probably understand it from CSI on TV , DNA analysis , '' he say . 

King Is plantation development ban worry timber industry 
Tasmania 's timber industry be worry that a ban on plantation development on King Island will set a precedent . 
The chief executive of the Forest Industries Association of Tasmania , Terry Edwards , say he be surprise that the planning policy to prohibit plantation on the island be uphold yesterday after legal scrutiny . 
He be concern other council will now try to limit plantation development . 
`` We now have a situation seemingly in Tasmania where council can tell farmer what crop they can or can not grow on their land , '' he say . 

Apples may be use to produce ethanol 
Apples could be the next agricultural commodity use to produce ethanol . 
The horticulture industry in Western Australia 's south-west say unsaleable fruit could be juiced and be turn into biofuel , fetch up to $ 120 a tonne . 
And Vic Grisotis from Apple and Pear Australia say other fruit could also be use . 
`` If it 's a sugar base product there 's no reason why it ca n't be , '' he say . 

Govt may extend drought assistance 
The Federal Government be consider extend it drought assistance in the face of worsen condition across many state . 
It say the current system be set up to deal with one or two-year drought rather than the series of dry year farmer have face . 
The federal Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , say the Government be worry that farmer in area where there have be some rain be slip through crack in the system , so change be be consider . 
`` We do n't believe now with the failed spring any of those area have any possibility of recovery , so rather than wait until they meet another criterion , we should be able to move them straight into drought declaration , '' Mr McGauran say . 
But the Opposition 's agriculture spokesman , Gavin O'Connor , say the Government have be too slow to act . 
`` Even in EC declare area , only 13 per cent of farmer have ever access these particular provision . '' 
The Government say plan change will make it easy for area to become drought declare for EC assistance . 
It say they will stop rainfall in one district rule out help for a whole region and allow EC declaration to last long than 12 month . 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say the current drought emergency require immediate intervention . 
Chief executive Ben Fargher say the politician be now aware farmer be not whingeing , but look for targeted measure to deal with the crisis . 
`` We need to make sure that EC program be work as well a it could , '' he say . 
`` We would also like the government to consider further change to EC about some eligibility criterion , lift cap on interest rate subsidy assistance and some technical matter like that . 

Wheat shortage prompt price spike 
World wheat price have enjoy their big two-day gain in 18 year on the Chicago Board of Trade , amid global supply concern a drought affect Australia , India , Europe and the US . 
Prices soar 13 per cent to $ US5.24 a bushel , the high level in 10 year before drop slightly . 
The frantic price spike come after the Grains Council slash it forecast for the Australian wheat harvest to 12 million tonne , though American producer believe the Australian crop will be even small than that . 
The wheat future rally have be spur by the massive area of cereal and canola crop fail in southern and central New South Wales . 
These be the comment from producer today from Dubbo through to the Murray River . 
`` Things have really go downhill in the last couple of week , our delivery say to Condobolin be probably lucky to get 10 per cent of the normal 150,000 tonne , '' one producer say . 
`` Some area there will be a small amount of grain harvest , probably about 90 per cent of the canola have now be cut for hay and a small proportion of the wheat have be cut for hay , '' say another . 
`` Very little more than 30 per cent will see a header at this stage , I think people be gloss over just how serious this be , another producer say . 
`` I know we have get people around here turn there stock in on their crop for the first time in 40 odd year . It 's very ordinary . 

Dairy farmer ' income increase 
Australian dairy farm cash income have increase by nearly a quarter in the past financial year to just over $ 100,000 a farm . 
Figures release by the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) show Victoria , South Australia and Western Australia perform strongly . 
But income fell in Tasmania , New South Wales and Queensland a the drought push up fodder cost and cut milk production . 
Colin Mues , from ABARE , say high price pay by dairy processor make a big difference to the bottom line . 
`` The main factor drive that be high milk price through improvement in the dairy market , '' he say . 
`` Production be fairly steady , it go down marginally at a national level but there be a fairly uniform improvement in price across all state and I think that 's be the key factor drive it and the price increase be , you know , between 3 and 5 per cent . '' 
But dairy farmer in Western Australia refute ABARE 's figure . 
Farmer John Giumelli say cost of dairying land be so high that profit making be almost impossible , even with good milk price . 
`` The attrition rate in dairy farm in WA be absolutely shock but it 's an indictment of what pressure the industry be under and I take no joy out of the ABARE figure , '' he say . 

Environmentalist honour at Landcare award 
Environmentalist Rick Farley have be remember at this year 's national Landcare award . 
The award winner be announce last night in Melbourme . 
One thousand people fly in from across Australia and as far a Africa to attend the event . 
Eleven award be hand out to farmer , school , and shire council for excellence in land conservation . 
Western Australia dominate take home three award , New South Wales and South Australia two and one go to Tasmania , Queensland and the Northern Territory . 
Governor-General Major General Michael Jeffery present the ABC with an award for it support . 
But for many whose life be touch by the late Mr Farley , a co-founder of Landcare , it be the dedication of an international award in his name that be the highlight of the evening . 

ACCC urge to investigate alleged price gouging 
The NRMA be call on the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to investigate what it allege be price gouge by Australia 's oil company , a fuel price fall . 
NRMA director and former NFF president Graham Blight be meet National party senator in Canberra today to discuss the issue . 
He say claim by the oil company that they be pass on all of the recent fall in wholesale fuel price be simply not accurate . 
`` The Singapore unleaded price have drop by 29 per cent , '' he say . 
`` The crude price have drop 22 per cent . So the difference between what we 've have here be a drop of 14 per cent and the Singapore unleaded be 15 per cent . 

Confrontation loom over US farm policy 
A showdown be loom over US farm policy , one that could be even more fierce in the wake of Congressional election next month . 
The Bush administration have be sing the praise this year of cut farm support . 
But farm state lawmaker be resist sweep reform and opposition could stiffen if Democrats regain control of at least the House amid several Republican scandal . 
Likely Democratic Agriculture chairman , Collin Peterson , blame US WTO concession . 
Mr Peterson say he be not go to give up 60 per cent of the US farm program until the EU , Japan and others give up their barrier to trade . 

Zinc price soar 
The price of zinc have soar to $ US1.66 a pound a world stock slip to their low level in 15 year . 
Zinc miner Zinifex say official stock be likely to drop to zero next year because of low production . 
Commodities analyst with the ANZ bank , Andrew Harrington , say tight supply on the London Metals Exchange will push price up far . 
`` What they 're say be the official stock in LME [ London Metals Exchange ] will probably get very , very low and obviously a they do that price go up , '' he say . 

Mangoes to be sell in cardboard tray 
Whole tray of mango will be for sale in supermarket this season . 
Retailers have demand the mango pack shed change over to small , black cardboard tray . 
Packing the new tray mean a lot more work . 
But Joe Schwarer , a Northern Territory pack shed manager , hop the tray will sell more fruit . 

Parents warn not to use animal treatment on child 
The Australian Veterinary Association be warn parent not to use treatment design for animal on child . 
The association 's Dr Matthew Miles say he have hear report from Victoria of animal flea treatment be use to combat head louse in child . 
He say the practice be dangerous . 
`` There 's no safety data whatsoever to describe their use in people and we just do n't know what be the effective level or safety level , '' he say . 

Gold mine set to reopen 
A gold mine in far north-western New South Wales that close more than 100 year ago may reopen . 
A 700 square kilometre prospect centre on Tibooburra be originally mine from 1880 to 1891 before water shortage and low gold price force it closure . 

Rejected banana may be return at grower ' expense 
More than 1,400 carton of banana from northern New South Wales have be reject by Victoria and may be return at the grower ' expense . 
Growers be seek the good price from the Melbourne market . 
But the $ 100,000 shipment be send without the certification need to ensure it be not ripe and therefore safe from fruit fly . 
Arthur Akehurst , from the Department of Primary Industries , say the action breach interstate trade regulation . 
`` This action have endanger the arrangement we have with Victoria but I hope Victoria see it a a one off and do n't take further action , '' he say . 

Govt 's training voucher 'a positive response ' 
Rural training body have give the Federal Government 's plan to give training voucher to school drop-outs a cautious welcome . 
Prime Minister John Howard say people over 25 , who do not complete Year 12 , will be able to use the $ 3,000 voucher to pay for vocational course in TAFEs , federal college and private institution . 
The chairman of the Rural Training Council of Australia , Peter Griffin , say the plan would go some way towards ease rural skill shortage . 
`` It 's a very positive response . The skill shortage be a complex issue through rural and regional Australia , '' he say . 

Firefighters battle blaze in Tas , Vic 
Tasmanian fire service say they have bring under control all 12 bushfires around the state . 
The bad blaze be in the state 's south , although fire have also be report on Flinders Island and Cape Barren Island . 
There have be no report of serious property damage but with temperature push 30 degree , the fire service warn the situation could worsen . 
In Victoria , a bushfire burn south of Mt Baw Baw in Gippsland have spread to 300 hectare , drive by strong northerly wind . 
Fifty firefighter be work on the blaze and bulldozer be cut containment line to stop it spread . 

Cyclone warn for Top End resident 
Residents live the Northern Territory 's Top End region be be urge to take preparation for the come cyclone season very seriously . 
CSIRO survey have show tropical cyclone Monica , which hit the Arnhem Land coast in April , devastate a wider area and more vegetation , and bring strong wind than cyclone Tracy , which flatten Darwin in 1974 . 
Researcher Dr Gary Cook say Monica snap off tree at the trunk up to 40 kilometre inland . 
`` The cyclone go past and do a lot of damage in Maningrida , but in the bush there be only about 15 per cent of the tree be snap off or topple over , '' Dr Cook say . 
`` Whereas out where cyclone Monica cross the coast be close to 80 per cent that compare to cyclone Tracy with Darwin , where it be only about one third of eucalyptus tree in town be topple over with cyclone Tracy . 

Bankers 'not force farmer ' off land 
The Australian Bankers Association have defend the bank ' record in deal fairly with drought-stricken farmer , follow an appeal from Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile . 
Mr Vaile have write to the major bank urge them not to foreclose on farm loan . 
The banker association 's rural policy director , Stephen Carroll , say foreclosure be at a historically low level , because farmer be not wait to be tell before decide to quit the land . 
`` The bank be not in the business of force people to get out of their business or to sell asset , '' he say . 

Climatologists back farmer on dry weather 
Climate modelling from around the world continue to support what farmer have believe for year , that it be get drier . 
Climatologist Dr Ian Foster , from Western Australia 's Department of Agriculture and Food , say there have be a shift to a noticeably dry climate in the south-west of Western Australia and that be set to continue for the next century . 
He say that trend be now also come through elsewhere in Australia . 

Egg price set to climb 
Egg farmer be warn that the drought may force them to increase their price by around 30 cent per dozen . 
The Australian Egg Corporation say egg farmer have be struggle to carry the additional cost of rise grain price . 

DNA cattle fee test draw attention 
Queensland 's Gold Coast saw a gathering of 650 people today for Beefex , the Australian lot feeder national conference . 
The cost of grain feed be on everyone 's lip . 
The commercial release of a new DNA test that can identify which cattle be likely to put on the most weight with the least feed have be announce today . 
CSIRO Livestock Industries and it commercial arm , Genetioc Solutions , take 18 month to identify four genetic marker that influence the feed intake efficiency of cattle . 
Feedlotters might fee a steer 1.5 tonne of feed over a 100 day . 
The announcement have draw lot of attention a feed price spiral across the country . 

AAC grazing plan prove successful : manager 
The nation 's large pastoral house have prove you can graze cattle productively in the outback without fence . 
The Australian Agricultural Company ( AAC ) be use water and herd to control graze across 500 square kilometre . 
Rockhampton Downs manager Ben Wratten say it have take two year to change the habit of cattle and so reduce overgrazing . 
`` We rotate them and alternate them from water point by shut off the one we do not want them to drink at , '' he say . 
`` We have get hard evidence now that it have definitely make a difference in the recovery of our pasture and we have full crown of mitchell grass within 200 metre of the trough . 
`` The cattle be burn a lot less energy to access good bulk feed . 

Wheat ship remain idle 
A German owned ship load with 72,000 tonne of AWB wheat bound for Sudan remain idle in Port Lincoln in South Australia . 
Following negotiation overnight , eight crew member who go on strike over pay and condition will now be send back to the Philippines , leave the ship anchor in the port . 
Dean Summers from the International Transport Workers Federation say the ship 's owner be look for more crew but it might be hard to attract them . 
`` I think it will be a couple of day and these guy will be send home , '' he say . 
`` We have get to wait for the Filipino seafarer to join it again , so there will be eight more guy come onto this . 
`` Although the guy come on will have to realise that they will be expect wage about half the already low international minimum , so it would not be a very attractive deal for anybody . '' 

US endorsement expect to increase canola oil production 
An Australian oilseed forum have hear that worldwide canola oil production be expect to increase after the US Food and Drug Administration give it health backing to the product . 
Delegates at the annual conference in Melbourne have gather to discuss the world outlook for oilseed , as well a genetic modification ( GM ) technology and biodiesel . 

Mining expansion may affect water resource 
The coal industry have concede that water resource may be damage by rapid expansion of underground mining in New South Wales . 
Spending on coal exploration in New South Wales have increase by 50 per cent in the last year and many new mine be set to open in the Hunter Valley and the state 's north west . 
Chris Moran , from the Sustainable Minerals Institute at Queensland University , say the scientific understanding of underground aquifer and the technology need to mine around them still haven not be develop . 
`` The question here be whether we have do the technical engineering research early enough to have effectively work out the cracking , the surface slumping and start to look at underground technique that will allow either the crack to be seal up or the cracking to be minimise during the process of mining , '' he say . 

Wine cheap than bottled water 
A supermarket in Australia 's second large wine grow region be currently sell wine more cheaply than bottled water . 
In another sign of the wine industry 's plight , the Fisher 's supermarket chain in north-west Victoria 's Sunraysia area have locally produce cleanskin red and white for $ 2 a bottle . 
Director Alan Fisher say he be not cash in on the difficulty of wine-grape grower in his local community because the only answer to the oversupply will be to move excess stock . 
`` There be a huge glut and we have get to get rid of it somehow , '' he say . 
`` I think what we be see be people sell it to people like ourselves to get rid of it a a cleanskin . 

Young scientist recognise for innovative idea 
Using aerosol spray to administer vaccine to chicken , harvest gold from plant and tackle pneumonia in pig , be among the innovative idea of 20 young Australian scientist . 
The winner of the 2006 Science and Innovation Awards for Young People in Agriculture , Fisheries and Forestry be announce last night in Canberra . 

Vic farmer hit out at drought assistance package 
Farmers have react angrily to the Victorian Government 's drought assistance package , announce yesterday , say they have miss out once again . 
Much of the $ 12.5 million package focus on assistance for community . 
Assistance for farmer include mental health service and counsel , business support and farming advice . 
Goulburn Valley dairy farmer Dudley Bryant say the day be number for farmer unless they get some financial help immediately . 
`` I think they 're treat u like idiot , '' he say . 
`` They think that we need social worker run around here pat u on the back and tell u that everything be go to be all right . 
`` And they 've miss the real point , [ which ] be that farmer and rural community can look after themselves . 

Water Initiative have room for improvement : report 
The first stage of a national assessment of Australia 's water resource have find there be considerable room for improvement . 
The Australian Water Resources 2005 report be a baseline assessment of Australia 's national water resource conduct by national independent agency include the CSIRO . 
It be design to show how the National Water Initiative , a blueprint for the country 's water reform , be influence Australia 's water resource . 
It reveal there be considerable room for improvement and say the state and federal government need to take firm action to put in place effective water planning to protect river system and to agree on a national standard for sustainable yield of surface and ground water system . 

Water trading plan will damage country town : Joyce 
National party Senator Barnaby Joyce say the Federal Government 's current water trading plan will damage the social and economic infrastructure of regional town . 
He have make the comment after a meeting with the head of the Murray-Darling Basin Commission , Wendy Craik . 
There be plan to take more water for environmental flow and increase water trading across state boundary . 
Senator Joyce say the very life of country town be in jeopardy because their economic prosperity will be trade away with the permanent sale of their water . 
`` What 'll happen be the function of small town base around irrigation on a sustainable basis will lose their water to other mechanism that probably do n't have the same history , the same infrastructure , economic and social infrastructure base round them , '' he say . 

Drought behind land value increase 
Climate change and drought be boost Northern Territory land value . 
There have be 38 sale in the Top End 's tightly hold pastoral estate over the past five year . 
Land valuer Frank Peacocke say well over half of the investor be Queenslanders . 
`` It may level out a little bit , probably when the interest rate take a bit of a turn or the cattle market take a turn , '' he say . 
`` But most of them have property somewhere else in Queensland . 

Cereal farmer head north 
A small group of cereal farmer from northern New South Wales have have enough of drought condition and have buy some of the wet agricultural land in the country . 
They have purchase cane farm in north Queensland 's Tully area , where annual rainfall regularly exceed 4,000 millimetre . 
Until now , Hugh Ball have grow thing like wheat , barley , chick pea and dry land cotton , but he say he and a few mate decide to branch out . 
`` Really there be three fella sit round a table and we 're all farmer , '' he say . 
`` We 're all [ from ] family driven farm and we be just look for an opportunity . 
`` We could n't do it ourselves so we think if we team up and use individual expertise this be a logical place to start look , good rain . 

Oil company deny collusion claim 
Australia 's oil company have tell a Senate inquiry they be not collude with each other to manipulate price . 
Caltex be appear before the petrol pricing inquiry in Canberra today , while BP have also make a submission . 
Caltex 's chief executive Des King say the company only make a profit of 2.2 cent after tax on each litre of fuel sell . 
He have tell senator that competition , not collusion , be the main driver for set petrol price . 
`` It be very important to people who operate petrol station to have high-volume traffic through their station because if somebody find that if their traffic through their station be low , they will then follow the price down , if somebody 's already lead the price down , to get their volume back up , because this be very much a low margin , high volume kind of business , '' he say . 
Committee member , Senator Andrew Murray , say it be unlikely collusion be take place between the oil company . 

Natural resource management a high priority for farmer : survey 
A new survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show farmer on average spend 121 day of work , or $ 28,000 in financial term , maintain their property each year . 
The survey of 20,000 farmer between 2004-2005 , find Australia 's primary producer spend $ 3.3 billion annually on natural resource management . 
While the grain and beef industry be the big spender , the high spender per farm be the cotton industry at a $ 250,000 a year . 
The director of environment statistic , David Brereton , say the study identify how much time and money farmer spend maintain their property and their environment , and in what way . 
`` Out of the $ 3.3 billion nationally , weed stack up a the major cost with $ 1.3 billion or one third of that be spend on weed , land and soil issue be $ 900 million and pest issue be $ 720 million , '' he say . 

Ethanol plant proposal shelve 
The Australian ethanol industry have take another blow , with Bundaberg Sugar decide to shelve a $ 20 million ethanol plant in north Queensland . 
The company have blame a lack of ethanol buyer for the decision , but also acknowledge it be unlikely to meet a deadline to qualify for $ 12 million in federal assistance . 
Caroline Honan , from lead ethanol producer , the Manildra Group , say the Federal Government must do more for the fledgling biofuels sector . 

Qld Govt to pay farmer to destroy smut infest cane 
The Queensland Government will pay cane farmer $ 2,000 a hectare to plough out and remove sugar cane crop infest by smut . 
The long awaited plan of attack come month after the fungal disease be first discover near Childers in the state 's south-east . 
Since smut be find in June , surveillance have uncover it on more than 60 property , total 380 hectare in the Isis and Bundaberg region . 
Isis Canegrowers chairman Joe Russo say destruction measure will help contain the disease to south-east Queensland . 
`` I see no point in leave smut infest block out there , '' he say . 
`` We 've now identify smut in some of those block of ratoon that have be harvest for the 2006 season . 
`` So it do go to show that we can not leave it there and let the wind just blow it around . 

Bird flu simulation to test Australia 's response 
The Federal Health Minister , Tony Abbott , say a four-day bird flu pandemic simulation will test Australia 's quarantine and health system on Monday . 
He say the $ 4 million exercise be the big health crisis simulation ever undertake in Australia and will involve more than 1,000 Commonwealth and state government official and staff . 
Mr Abbott say part of the exercise will involve a passenger carry bird flu arrive at Brisbane Airport on Tuesday . 
`` It will help test our border control , disease detection and surveillance , contact tracing , quarantine and treatment system , '' he say . 
Australian actor , film maker , musician and the late Steve Irwin have all contribute to increase sale of Australian wine in the United States . 
The industry say they have all help boost awareness of our country and wine sale to the US have increase in a decade from 2 million to 23 million case a year . 
And New York base Jan Stuebing-Smyth from Wine Australia say there be still room for the market to grow . 
`` It 's our job to show them the diversity , '' she say . 
`` They now see Australia a one big place . 

Drought force revision of USDA wheat forecast 
The US Agriculture Department ( USDA ) have make dramatic change to it late wheat forecast base largely on the unfolding Australian drought disaster . 
The USDA knock down it estimate of Australian wheat production by a whopping 8.5 metric tonne to just 11 million tonne in just one month and this have sharply change US number . 
Chairman of USDA 's World Agricultural Outlook Board Gerald Bange blame Australia 's drought and extreme heat . 
`` The Australians will not be in the export market the way they would have be otherwise , '' he say . 
`` As a result of that , we have increase our export forecast today . 
`` We go up 25 million bushel from our previous forecast . '' 

Water restriction yet to be introduce in Broken Hill 
Despite the critical shortage of water in the Menindee Lakes in western New South Wales , the city of Broken Hill remain without water restriction . 
The lake system , which supply the city with all it water , be down to just 14 per cent capacity . 
But Country Energy 's Brian Steffan say restriction have not be introduce , partly because of concern about lead poisoning . 
`` Broken Hill be situate where it be have significant issue with lead dust , so what we need to do be make sure that we have enough water , '' he say . 
`` We use more water than other eastern city [ and ] town because we need to make sure that we have water to keep the lead dust down . '' 
Meanwhile high security irrigators in the New South Wales Murray Valley have become the late farmer to have their water allocation reduce . 
Allocations be now back to 80 per cent of entitlement . 
A similar cutback be make recently in South Australia . 
The New South Wales Government say inflow in September be the low on record and there have be no October rain so far . 
The chairman of the New South Wales Irrigators Council , Col Thomson , say he be not surprise by the decision , which he say will affect many farmer . 
`` Dairy farmer and those people that have n't have enough water on low security have be very active in the market and a lot of high security have trade down to what they would normally use in a year , '' he say . 

Locust spray under way 
The WA Department of Agriculture and Food will start spray for locust today . 
Numbers be say to be some of the bad on record and the locust be get stick into what little feed and crop be around in this dry season . 
Department crew , along with farmer , have be survey farm for some month now and have detect target zone that will be control before locust swarm . 

Kosciuszko bushfire contain 
A 5,000 hectare bushfire in the Kosciuszko National Park have be contain by weekend rain but it be still a complex operation to put it out . 
No property be lose in the blaze but sear temperature and hot westerly wind sweep the flame through new grassland that have grow where the tree be burn in the 2003 summer fire . 
Incident controller Ian Stewart say firefighter will be winch into `` hot spot '' to put out any fire still burn in the rugged country near the snow line . 
`` Yesterday we have a FLIR [ forward look infra red sensor/laser range ] machine come down , that 's a helicopter with a forward look infrared device which pick up hot spot , '' he say . 

Durum wheat production cut 
The dry weather and crown rot disease have force South Australia 's durum wheat production to be cut dramatically this season . 
Durum be use be make pasta . 
Estimates be down from last year 's 180,000 tonne to just 40,000 tonne . 
Michael Jaeschke , president of the SA Durum Growers Association , say the crop estimate will continue to decline a harvesting begin . 
`` Unfortunately durum seem to be the first one to go out in a dry season like this , '' he say . 
`` There 's a lot of durum on the ground now that 's be cut down for hay and what 's leave there be really struggle to form any sort of grain . 

Frost hit Tas orchard 
Tasmania 's fruit grower be brace for heavy loss after frost hit orchard around the State overnight . 
The full extent of the damage will not be know until later in the week , but early report suggest severe loss of cherry , apricot and apple . 
Steve Wilson from the University of Tasmania say orchardists in the State 's south have be hit hard . 
`` Most grower wo n't be aware of whether they 've suffer any damage until probably late this afternoon or in the next couple of day , '' he say . 

Exercise test pandemic influenza response 
Brisbane be host a national exercise respond to a suspected case of pandemic influenza . 
The exercise follow a simulated outbreak of foot and mouth disease a couple of year ago . 
Queensland chief veterinary officer Ian Douglas say `` Exercise Consumption '' be the first of it size and scope anywhere in the world but be not directly link to bird flu . 
`` Health authority have be concern since about 2003 that the H5N1 type of influenza of bird , because there 's so much of it about , that it may be the candidate to mutate or change , that it can go in human and therefore I guess , in the back of everyone 's mind , yes that 's probably a scenario , '' he say . 

Companies may have to look overseas to fill labour demand 
Australia 's resource sector say it will be difficult to find an extra 70,000 worker over the next decade , estimate to meet it demand for labour . 
A new report by a nationwide skill shortage work group show that Western Australia will struggle the most , with the mineral industry there demand an extra 42,000 job . 
Reg Howard-Smith from WA 's Chamber of Minerals and Energy say mining company may have to look overseas . 
`` I think one of the thing that we will have to do be continually look at immigration , '' he say . 
`` Immigration 's not go to be the sole solution by any mean , it 's across the board and a I say , work with the people that be here . 
`` But immigration be go to be an important element , I think , if we be to meet these target . '' 
Meanwhile Australia 's coal industry have be tell it need to properly coordinate it infrastructure need if it i to reap the benefit of future export . 
A report release by the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) warn against interstate rivalry over new port and rail facility . 
ABARE expect coal export to rise to 435 million tonne within 20 year , but say it be critical that new mine and infrastructure development do come on stream . 
Don Gunasekera from ABARE 's mineral branch say despite move to energy production from source such a LNG , coal will remain a mainstay of Australian export . 

Pineapple anti-dumping measure to be expand 
The Australian pineapple industry have have a win against cheap Asian import . 
Anti-dumping measure will be expand over the next five year in a bid to stop cheap process pineapple be dump on the Australian market . 
Golden Circle chief executive John Cook hop the new measure will improve domestic price . 

Aust producer may gain ground in US restaurant trade : analyst 
A visit US analyst say Australia 's reputation for good quality beef could see exporter gain ground at the quality end of the coveted American market . 
Australia 's disease free status , reputation for quality and the National Livestock Identification Scheme should help Australia sell more beef to the restaurant trade rather than the traditional hamburger market . 
The publisher of the US-based Cattle Buyers Weekly , Steve Kay , have this encouraging message for Australian producer . 

Grazier fin over NLIS breach 
For the first time in Queensland , a grazier have be fin for breach the state 's new cattle identification system . 
The National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) be an electronic system of tag for trace livestock disease back to the source . 
Ron Glanville , from the Queensland Department of Primary Industries , say the grazier be take to court over eight head of cattle that be discover at Dalby 's saleyards without tag . 
He say the man be fin $ 500 but no conviction be record . 

King Is resident seek wave power study 
Residents of King Island in Bass Strait be call for a feasibility study into wave power , in the hope that one day the island could be self-sufficient in electricity . 
Australian-developed technology be currently be trialled at Port Kembla in New South Wales but King Island resident David Kerr say he would also like to see it test off King Island 's coast , which be know for it blustery weather . 
He say the island 's position be ideal . 
`` We have an active wave climate here on the western side of the island in particular , be at 40 degree south in the path of the roaring forty , '' he say . 

Grain company to feel impact of drought 
An agribusiness analyst predict the unprecedented drought will wipe ten of million of dollar of profit off key grain handling and marketing company . 
Austock predict Australian winter wheat production will be down 60 per cent on the national five year average to 13.4 million tonne . 
Analyst Paul Jensz say while many key grain business have cut cost and rationalise , it will not be enough to curtail the effect of the massive drop in grain volume . 
`` Graincorp for instance will be the most impacted , it will have a negative profit of around minus $ 20 million for 07 in our estimate , '' he say . 

Govt extend drought support package 
The Prime Minister say the Federal Government be extend it drought support package because it be not prepared to let the number of farmer in Australia drop below a critical level . 
John Howard say Australia owe it character and history to it farmer and so the Federal Government be not prepared to let the drought dramatically reduce the number of farm . 
He have announce that in 18 already drought declare area now irrigators , dairy farmer and dryland farmer will be able to claim exceptional circumstance payment . 
Mr Howard have also extend income support and interest rate subsidy relief until March 2008 to take account of the length of the drought . 

International harvest extend 
Less sugar be trade last week and the prompt March 2007 contract range between 11 and 11.87 US/ pound , and settle at 11.71 this morning . Queensland Sugar marketing manager Paul Heeney say some of the other international sugar harvest will be extend . 

Collinsville mine wait for final green light 
After 10 year of exploration in the Collinsville area and 18 month of preliminary development , Q Coal Pty Ltd be expect to start serious construction early next year . Situated in the Charters Towers mining district , the open cut mine be six kilometre south of Collinsville . Managing director Christopher Wallin say the final deadline for community objection to the project be November 8 and they have apply for three , 30 year lease to support the open cut mine . 
`` We believe that there 'll be over 100 job full time and during construction of course there 'll be several hundred job in the construction phase . '' 

Grain price hike felt from the trough to the plate 
It 's go to cost a lot more to put food on your plate , a the flow on effect from a hike in grain continue down the line . As the State 's overall supply dwindles , it 's not just the big agricultural industry like cattle feedlot feel the pinch , small time producer , egg farmer , baker , and even coffee shop be be force to increase their price to keep afloat . 
Fiona Eastwell and her family have just buy an agricultural business near Townsville and while it 's too early for them to feel it in the north , their coffee shop and restaurant business in south-east Queensland have see the consequence . 
`` We be consider pull sandwich price up , meal price up- just a little of everything over the board because it effect from make pikelets , from buy in gateau and cake . '' 
Jeff Ironside own 12 Oaks Poultry , Townsville and manage 200,000 chooks to supply egg to a number of business . He 's see a huge increase in grain price , a he buy over 5000 tonne of grain annually and be look at a rather dramatic increase in his own price to maintain a profit margin . 
`` Normally we 're look to stock up , but there 's not a lot of grain on the ground and what there be , be as dear a poison . '' 
David Henderson from Riverina Australia , a grain supplier base in Oakey in south-east Queensland say there be a major shortage of sorghum , wheat and barley , and a their product be send to agency all around Queensland can see the whole industry from the paddock to the trough . 
He say he have n't see a price hike as severe a this before . 

NFF encourage support for farmer 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) say critic of the Federal Government 's extension to it drought support be ignore economic reality . 
Environmental scientist from the Wentworth Group and the Australia Institute say the $ 350-million extension to the relief program be encourage farmer to stay on unviable land . 
But NFF president David Crombie say farmer must be support , so when the drought break they be ready to quickly ramp up production . 
`` I mean Australian agriculture contribute something like $ 103 billion into the Australian economy , $ 30 billion in export , 1.6 million job , we 're achieve productivity growth of 3-4 per cent . Australian agriculture be very important to Australia , '' he say . 

Package welcome 
The exceptional circumstance ( EC ) extension be very welcome in the grazing country from Canberra south to the Victorian border . 
From Braidwood to the Snowy Mountains , grazier have be destocking and try to survive for several year on less than half average rainfall . 
Brian Clifford , from the Cooma Rural Lands Protection Board , say government can not do any more now for farmer , unless they can make it rain . 
`` At least they 're recognise that they need the rural industry and it be a one in one hundred or probably bad now , '' he say . 
`` I think it 's great news what they have do and let 's hope we get a break in the autumn . '' 
But the first stage of the drought assistance package will offer relief to only a handful of Queensland primary producer - about 14 farmer in the North Burnett region . 
Queensland Farmers Federation executive officer John Cherry hop future announcement will have more benefit for his member . 
And Western Australian farmer have miss out altogether because a state drought assistance scheme end at a later date than state aid elsewhere . 
Meanwhile a prominent Australian researcher say the drought be even bad than most of u think . 
Professor Paul Perkins , from the Centre for Resource and Environmental Studies at the Australian National University , say our dry condition be be mirror in place like the western United States , Spain and Portugal . 
He say Australia must learn to produce twice as much food with half the water , to help fee the world . 
`` It appear that in area of the Northern Hemisphere , similar to ours , this summer just finishing have be much bad than 2002 , '' he say . 
`` Which mean you have get another bad summer come in Australia , much bad than any since European settlement in Australia . 

Govt abandon Paradise Dam water tender process 
A new way of marketing water to irrigators in Queensland appear to have fail . 
Queensland Government-owned SunWater have abandon the tender process for the sale of water from the new Paradise Dam in southern Queensland . 
The 300,000 megalitre dam , currently at just 13 per cent capacity , be west of Bundaberg on the Burnett River , but it water have attract only limited interest from irrigators . 

Cane toad may head south with flooding rain 
If the drought end , with the traditional flooding rain , it could introduce an unwelcome pest to the south-eastern state . 
Frog expert Professor Mike Tyler say cane toad be already present in the southern Queensland area of the Murray Darling basin and will start move downstream along the Darling when it flood , possibly as far a South Australia . 
He say it be not a matter of if they head south , but when . 
`` The Murray system itself be really perfect environment for the cane toad , '' he say . 
`` I 'm not talk about the major river channel itself but instead the billabong along the side . 

Iron ore price forecast to increase 
The head of Rio Tinto Iron Ore have forecast an increase in iron ore price in the next round of international negotiation , due to get under way next month . 
Chief executive Sam Walsh say while the Brazilians settle the price in the last round , Australia be the number two supplier in the world and be in a strong position this time . 
`` The first part of the negotiation be , in fact , set the scene , particularly in relation to economics , GDP growth and obviously steel and iron ore usage , '' he say . 

Mine expansion bond not enough : WWF 
Traditional owner and conservationist have vow to continue campaign against expansion of the Northern Territory 's McArthur River lead and zinc mine . 
That be despite the Territory Government give the green light for diversion of the tropical river , to allow mining of one of the world 's large ore deposit beneath the river bed . 
Dr Stuart Blanch of the World Wide Fund for Nature ( WWF ) say the $ 55 million bond will not be enough to safeguard the Gulf of Carpentaria . 
`` What can it do if there be major pollution spill into the McArthur ? '' he say . 
`` I have never hear any reasonable technical or engineering proposal that would say for $ 55.5 million or in that ballpark , this be how we can recapture lead and zinc or other acid or heavy metal that be escape into the river that have be absorb by fish or dugong , or turtle and pollute the sediment . 

Frost hit cherry grower hardest 
Severe frost have destroy up to half of this season 's fruit crop in Tasmania . 
It have be confirm that cherry grower have be hard hit , with loss range from 30 to 80 per cent , while apple and apricot grower have also report heavy loss . 
Domestic shortage be now expect in the coming month after frost also decimate Victoria 's Goulburn Valley crop . 
And Gerald Ellis , from the Vineyards Association of Tasmania , say some grape grower expect to lose half this season 's fruit . 

US vow not to compete over Japanese beef market 
The United States beef industry have pledge to try to expand the Japanese beef market , rather than take market share from Australia . 
Australia be currently host beef producer from the United States , Canada , Mexico and New Zealand for the annual five nation beef talk . 
The president of the US National Cattlemen 's Beef Association , Mike John , say they would rather grow a contracted Japanese beef market than compete against Australia . 
`` I do n't really look at it a a competitive issue , I think that the entire beef consumption be down in Japan - I mean regardless of where the beef come from , '' he say . 

Authorities monitor European bluetongue virus outbreak 
Australian authority be carefully watch an outbreak of the bluetongue virus in Europe . 
Bluetongue be spread by bite insect and can kill infected livestock . 
Richard Norris , from Western Australia 's Department of Agriculture and Food , say while the virus also exist in Australia a new strain could affect Middle East trade . 
He say the late outbreak have affect more than 700 cattle and sheep on the border of Belgium , Holland , Germany and France . 
`` It 's mainly affected sheep but it 's also make some cattle sick and a few of them have die , '' Mr Norris say . 
`` Now this be the first time it 's be record with credibility that cattle have be sick with a particular strain of bluetongue . 

Communities feel drought impact 
A report have reveal 10 per cent of Queenslanders live in poverty and those in regional and remote area be among the most vulnerable . 
The study be carry out by the University of Queensland 's Social Research Centre . 
Jill Lang , from the Queensland Council of Social Service , say 400,000 people in the state be survive on half the average weekly income . 
`` There be a number of reason for this , '' she say . 

Cloud juice head for export market 
Rainwater from Tasmania 's King Island could soon become part of a Japanese tradition . 
King Island Cloud Juice , a it be retail , be currently be seek after to make the rice wine - sake . 
Company director Duncan McFie say demand for the rainwater be increase across the world and expansion be likely . 
`` I have this idea year ago that just a King Island Dairy have a tanker that drive around and pick up all the milk , I have this little cloud juice tanker in my head that drive around and pick up all the water , '' he say . 

Boxer Bronco Johnson die at 78 
Australia have lose one of the last true box showman , north Queenslander Don 'Bronco ' Johnson , who die this week at the age of 78 . 
Bronco Johnson earn a reputation throughout Australia for his wild fighting style , his courageous rodeo riding and his Errol Flynn moustache . 
In the 1950s and 1960s he lead a travel 10-man boxing and rodeo troupe , take on all challenger . 
Troupe member Harry Grogan say it be a tough way to make a living , but he thoroughly enjoy work with 'Bronco ' . 
`` Any time he fight he use to get the crowd in because they use to love him , the way he would swing at people and hit them from his knee , '' he say . 

Parasitic wasp ' project secure $ 4m 
A research project into parasitic wasp have be award $ 4 million by the National Science Foundation in the United States . 
Professor Andrew Austin from Adelaide University will lead the international research to examine and name the thousand of wasp specie . 
He say wasp be crucial for ecological balance and may be important biological control agent in the future . 

Concerns govt regulation limit mining investment 
The Western Australian mineral exploration sector claim government regulation be cost the state billion of dollar in lose investment . 
WA have record it low ever level of exploration spending , while other state , like New South Wales and South Australia , have almost double theirs . 
Justin Wolawski , from the Association of Mining and Exploration Companies , say Western Australia have a reputation a a difficult place to do business due to native title and environmental constraint . 
`` The mineral exploration and mining industry take up point zero three percent of the state land mass , it 's a minuscule amount of the state , '' he say . 
`` But what 's in front of mineral exploration and mining company in some case be approval of both house of Parliament , approval from the Minister of Environment , and then further impediment alongside there . 

Abalone farm keen to restock after virus 
An abalone farm be attempt to get it business back on track after the discovery of a herpes-like virus on the south-west coast of Victoria earlier this year . 
Port Fairy 's Southern Ocean Mariculture voluntarily destocked three million abalone to prevent the disease spreading . 
The company say test during the past six week have show the farm be now free of the virus . 
General manager Mark Jervis say an application to move stock back onto the farm need to be approve by the Victorian Government 

Old wife ' tale confirm , milk help people sleep 
If you have have a few sleepless night over the continue dry weather try a warm glass of milk before bed . 
A Dutch study have find that the amino acid find in milk not only make for a good night 's sleep , but also activate a hormone in the brain that make people more active in the morning . 
Dairy Australia dietitian Maree Garside say it be really confirm what many have know for a long time . 
`` They 're suggest that be alert in the morning may be due to a good night 's sleep and this serotonin , that 's produce in the brain be sort of help along by have tryptophan in your food such a a glass of milk , '' she say . 
`` This be I guess a bit of research to back up something that we may have know for a while . '' 
Meanwhile , Victorian scientist have find that the amount of feed a dairy cow eats do not affect it ability to withstand a long lactation period . 
Researchers believe extend lactation can make cow healthy and give farmer good cash flow . 
Dr Martin Auldist , from the Victorian Primary Industries Department , say the finding that no extra feed need to be buy to sustain a long lactation come a a big surprise . 

Possibilities for GM cotton raise at conference 
Northern Australian irrigators and researcher have not give up on genetically modify cotton . 
The crop have be exclude from the Ord Valley , by the Western Australian Government , and be ban in the Northern Territory . 
But grower attend a national irrigation conference in Darwin want to plant it . 
Researcher John Moulden say trial have prove GM cotton use less water than exist Ord Valley crop like sugar cane and banana . 
`` We be not advocate cotton a the be all and end all for the Ord , it 's just one of the option we feel farmer in the Ord really need and deserve , '' he say . 
`` There 's no scientific or environmental reason why GM cotton should n't be grow in northern Australia - the issue have be extensively address . 

Govt unveil quarantine change 
The Federal Government say change to Australia 's quarantine system , announce today , will streamline assessment of import . 
The Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , say quarantine risk assessment process will be strengthen by more scientific scrutiny , as well a improve and early consultation with importer and farmer . 

Transporter 's business boom a farmer send stock to Tas 
Desperate Victorian dairy farmer be send their stock to Tasmania . 
One of Tasmania 's big livestock cart contractor , Page Transport , be bring up to 40 load of cattle a week from Victoria , include some dairy cow still in milk , to be agisted on the north-west coast . 
The company 's operation manager , Chris Page , say it be an unfortunate consequence of the drought that his business be flat out . 
`` The transport industry in Tasmania will be busier through a drought , which like it or not that 's our stance on it , but it be an awful thing , '' he say . 

Pool arrangement 'do n't secure ' grower 
The Grains Council of Australia say new trust arrangement for the national pool , which make AWB Limited the sole beneficiary of the trust , will not protect the financial interest of grower . 
AWB National Pool Trust Pty Limited have be set up to quarantine the liability of each pool within that national pool , start with this financial year . 
But Grains Council chairman Murray Jones say the arrangement do nothing to change the status of grower from unsecured to secure creditor . 
`` Our legal advice be tell u that because they 've make AWB Limited a beneficiary of the trust then that do n't really achieve what we aim to do , which be to ensure the grower and the pool participant be the secured creditor , '' he say . 
`` Growers today be really focus on how serious the drought be . They be really do it tough , and we need to do whatever we can to preserve their equity in this current pool . '' 
But the chairman of AWB International , Ian Donges , say the Grains Council have get it all wrong about the new trust . 
He say grower will enjoy more financial security , not less . 
`` The reason we go down the trust path be that we want to give pool participant additional protection against any unforeseen liability , '' he say . 

Coalition split over AWB 's single desk 
The Deputy Prime Minister , Mark Vaile , say a split between Coalition MPs , on whether the single desk wheat export system should be scrap , be just a symptom of a healthy debate . 
In the wake of Cole inquiry evidence about AWB kickback to Iraq , up to six MPs include Wilson Tuckey , have call for the end of the single desk . 
But Nationals member , include Senator Barnaby Joyce , say it must be maintain . 
Mr Vaile say the Government be consider all the view of MPs and Senators , along with wheat grower group . 
`` We really do need to wait until Cole report , which be about a month away , and have a look at what the recommendation be and what the outcome of the inquiry be and how that affect the whole structure , '' he say . 
`` We do n't want to be make decision that may be see a knee-jerk reaction and then have to go through another set of change if there be particular recommendation come out of Cole . '' 
Liberal Senator Bill Heffernan say that , while he support a single desk , it be debatable whether AWB be the best company to run it . 

Natural Resources defend water cutback 
The NSW Department of Natural Resources have defend the way it cut back water allocation to 80 per cent for Murray Valley Irrigators . The announcement on Sunday shock many farmer because it come without warn . Executive director for water management David Harriss explain it have be a complex issue to work through . He claim they could not flag the cut in entitlement to irrigators because it would have breach commercial confidence . The reduction will apply only to water still in user ' account , and be n't calculate on the full entitlement . 

Abalone farm 
A Port Fairy abalone farm have be work hard to get it business back on track after be affect by the abalone virus that affect the south-west earlier this year . Southern Ocean Mariculture voluntarily destocked to prevent the disease spread further and now have no commercial stock on the farm . The company have be run a sentinel trial for the last six week to see if there be still any disease outside the water of the farm and the result have come back negative . Sarah Farnsworth catch up with general manager Mark Jervis to find out what process be now take place so the farm can be restock . 

Fishing licence buyback scheme will secure industry 's future : Abetz 
The federal Minister for Fisheries , Eric Abetz , say he be confident the Government 's fishing licence buyback scheme will secure the industry 's future , despite continued illegal fishing in Australian water . 
He be particularly encouraging Bass Strait scallop fisher and northern prawn fisher to apply to have their licence buy out in the second round opening later this month after most of their tender be unsuccessful . 
Senator Abetz say significant success be be make in stop illegal fishing . 
`` I think we be slowly but surely get on top of illegal fishing , '' he say . 
`` In northern Tasmania , a the time we speak now we 've catch 308 vessel this calendar year . 

Greens call for climate change inquiry 
The Greens be call on the Federal Government to establish a Senate inquiry into the implication of climate change for the future of Australian agriculture . 
The party say climate change could profoundly affect rural community and be vital to get a clear picture of what step can be take now to minimise the impact . 
The chair of the Senate 's rural and regional affair committee , Senator Bill Hefferenan , have indicate he will take the Greens proposal to his Liberal partyroom . 
Greens Senator Rachel Siewert be hopeful there will be enough support for an inquiry . 
`` We also want to look at what we can do about it , what be the adaptation strategy need to deal with these impact on our rural community to ensure that they be viable , '' he say . 

Unsold sheep to be take to the tip 
Sheep could be bury in a pit if they be not sell at a South Australian livestock market . 
Prices for old sheep be plummet in the saleyards , with a lack of buyer during the drought . 
One of the state 's big saleyards , Naracoorte , have draw up contingency plan . Any unsold sheep will be place in a pit at the local tip . 
Denis Hovenden from the Naracoorte Lucindale Council say stock agent and the council be try to prevent unsaleable sheep from come into the yard . But under the current regulation , stock can not be return to their owner if they be not sell . 
He say no one want to put the plan into action , but there be very little choice . 
`` At this stage it be very much an unknown , '' he say . 

Compo for Murray Valley irrigators rule out 
The New South Wales Government have rule out compensation for Murray Valley irrigators affect by water cut back . 
High security allocation and carry over water in the Murray Valley have be cut by 20 per cent because of record low inflow . 
The Natural Resources Minister , Ian Macdonald , say the water will be pay back in future , so there be no need for compensation . 
He say more measure to help the farming community will be announce in the next fortnight . 

Drought dominate National Field Days 
New and innovative way of cop with the drought be the most popular exhibit at this year 's National Field Days , currently under way at Orange in central-western New South Wales . 
Amazingly , the long-running drought have not dampen the spirit of those attend the National Field Days at Borenore . 
It be the old field day in Australia , run for 55 year . 
Organisers say exhibitor number and attendance level be very similar to last year , with 30,000 expect through the sun-drenched gate to the parched earth of the Field Days site . 
The hot topic be debate in forum there include manage the risk of climate change . 

Graincorp back call for end to AWB wheat export monopoly 
One of the nation 's big private grain trader have back call for AWB to lose it monopoly for wheat export . 
Western Australian Liberal MP Wilson Tuckey be spearhead a campaign to dismantle the single desk for wheat export , in response to speculation that AWB will make significant trading loss this season . 
Tom Keene , manage director of Graincorp , will not directly criticise AWB . But he say grower would do good if other company be allow to trade in export wheat . 
`` It would be wrong of me to comment on the AWB 's hedge arrangement , '' he say . 
`` My reaction have be and continue to be that a marketplace that have more competition in it would ensure that grower could choose who they sell their grain to , just a they currently do with their other grain . 

Ecuador hopeful banana import ban will be lift 
Ecuador and other banana export country be hopeful the ban on Australia import banana from the Philippines will be overturn before the end of the year . 
The Australian Banana Growers Council say Biosecurity Australia have change it position on the issue several time , but it must take account of the danger of Moko disease in it current import risk analysis . 
Ecuador 's Ambassador Antonio Rodas Posso say if Filipino import get approve , it will make the application process easy for other country . 
`` We have hear that you right now , the Australians , be make research on another kind of banana from another country , '' he say . 

Incidence of breast cancer higher in rural woman : UK study 
A British study have find that rural woman be three time more likely to suffer from breast cancer . 
But Australian researcher say this contradicts with their finding , which indicate the incidence of breast cancer be high in city . 
John Harding , head of the health register and cancer monitoring unit at the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare , say the statistic show that woman in remote Indigenous community have the low incidence of breast cancer . 
`` There be a protective effect for breast cancer for woman who have child earlier and then breast feed for long period of time , '' he say . 

Cherry research , development levy increase 
Australia 's cherry grower have vote to increase their research and development levy by three cent . 
They will now contribute four cent per kilogram , with the industry expect to raise about $ 280,000 a year . 
The secretary of the Cherry Growers Association , Trevor Ranford , say the rise be long overdue . 

Cattle , sheep export death rise 
The number of cattle and sheep death in export shipment have rise slightly in the first six month of this year , compare to the same period last year . 
Department of Agriculture report table in the Senate say cattle death rise from 1.3 in 1,000 to 1.4 . 
Sheep death rise from six in 1,000 to eight . 
Deaths of goat rise from 11 in 1,000 to 13 . 
But the federal Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , say animal management measure at port and on live export ship have improve dramatically . 
`` Especially the inspection at the feedlot and also before the stock board the ship , in transit where there 's a requirement for a vet , report daily back to AQIS , with the oversight of an experienced stockman , the improved feed and water system [ and ] the best ship in the world , '' he say . 

Uranium industry heavily regulate : ERA chief 
The head of the Ranger uranium mine in the Northern Territory say new entrant to the uranium industry should prepare themselves for zealous government regulation . 
Harry Kenyon-Slaney , the CEO of Energy Resources Australia ( ERA ) which run Ranger , say his mine be one of the most stringently regulate in the world . 
He say the red tape come at a price and be definitely not for mine company who want to cut corner . 
`` Frankly , uranium mining be just like any other mining , '' he say . 
`` It have some specific issue that need to be manage , just a ... other different mining operation do . 

Drought may affect dairy food supply , exporter say 
A Victorian-based exporter and processor of dairy food have tell a conference in Sydney that Japan be concern about Australia 's capacity to ensure long-term supply because of the drought . 
Burra Foods say Australia export nearly $ 23 billion of food and beverages a year , with Japan take 20 per cent of that . 
But chief executive Grant Crothers say while Japan have be a loyal customer of Australia for two decade , it be now worry about the continue dry condition . 
`` Security of supply for any country that ca n't fee themselves be a big issue and their self-sufficiency on food be down to about 40 per cent and they know they need to buy food outside Japan , '' he say . 

Senate committee back guest worker scheme rejection 
A Senate inquiry have reject farmer ' argument that Pacific islands guest worker should be allow in to ease a national shortage of harvest labour . 
The Senate committee 's report support the Federal Government 's view that a new visa be not need for seasonal farm worker . 
Inquiry chairwoman Judith Troeth say extensive hearing suggest farmer could find Australian harvest labour if they pay good wage and offer adequate working condition and accommodation . 
`` The guarantee that we be give that there would be suitable accommodation and enough work for labourer come in Australia - the confidence there be probably misplace , '' the Victorian Liberal Senator say . 
`` Experienced picker who be Australian tell u that it be often quite difficult to get a good wage on the present piece rate that exist . '' 
The body represent fruit and vegetable grower in north-west Australia be furious about the inquiry 's finding . 
David McKerrell from the Kimberley Primary Industries Association say it be not pay and condition that be put worker off in Kununurra in north-west Western Australia , it be the heat . 
He say many farmer in the district already pay above award wage but it be not help . 
Mr McKerrell want the Federal Government to make exception to allow Pacific Islanders to work in hotter climate like the Kimberley . 
`` Up in Kununurra at present , when it 's 38 degree everyday , it 's not pleasant working , '' he say . 
`` And if these people be around that Senator Troth say there be , surely they would be here . 
`` There 's mango here drop on the ground . 
`` There 's no one available and they 're not here , and the reason they 're not here be because it 's too hot . 
`` They 're not acclimatise to it and that 's the end of the story . '' 
Isis Shire Mayor Bill Trevor give evidence to the Senate Committee when it visit Queensland 's fruit and vegetable grow Bundaberg and Childers region early this year . 
He say the inquiry have hardly look at the many barrier that farmer face in get worker . 
`` There be a need within the farm community to be able to access labour and it 's very , very difficult at time , especially in peak production period , for farmer to pick up that extra labour , '' he say . 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) have launch a national advertising campaign to lift domestic beef sale by $ 300 million over the next three year . 
The $ 2.8 million promotion will involve television , radio , newspaper and magazine advertisement start from this Sunday . 
MLA spokesman David Palmer say it have be seven year since beef have be promote and it be important to keep consumer think about it . 
`` The ambition over a lengthy period through until 2009/2010 be to to increase the frequency of beef consumption from 2.3 meal to 2.6 meal per week , '' he say . 
`` There 's a TV advertisement which be a bit quirky , a little bit of humour , that take up back to the beginning of Australia , the beginning of white settlement in Australia . 
`` You know it 's just a good story about beef and summer , and barbeque . '' 
And a part of a new marketing plan for King Island beef , the product be now be use in gourmet meat pie sell at the supermarket . 
Traditionally , only cut such a eye fillet and porter house have attract a premium price for the King Island brand . 
Tasman Group marketing manager Lydia Horsburgh say the pie will open up the product to a wider group of shopper . 

Young cattle price slip 
Young cattle value in eastern Australia have slip to their low level in three year . 
The eastern young cattle indicator fell 29.5 cent in the past week to finish yesterday on 267 cent per kilogram carcase weight . 
That mean the indicator have fall 28 per cent since January . 
Southern Queensland livestock agent Noel Grant say he be not surprised a beef producer run out of feed and water . 
`` It 's something we expect to happen , '' he say . 
`` The confidence have go out of the store market generally . 

Drought relief package change expect 
The Deputy Prime Minister , Mark Vaile , be expect to announce another major drought relief package next week , extend assistance to more farmer , their family and rural business . 
The package be expect to bring Federal Government drought spend to more than $ 2 billion . 
The Federal Government say further change to it drought relief package will mean thousand more farmer in more region will become eligible for exceptional circumstance drought assistance . 
It be already encourage the South and Western Australian state government to apply for EC status . 
It have also listen to call from Coalition backbencher for help for farm-related business , extra measure to combat rural depression and more emergency assistance for rural family . 

Locusts threaten Nullarbor crop 
It have appear that crop near the Nullarbor in South Australia 's far west look like be some of the best in the nation because they have receive reasonable rain . 
But now they be under threat from locust and local farmer say they be not get the help they need from the State Government . 
Brian Smith from Coorabie , west of Ceduna , say newly hatch locust be wreak havoc on crop . 
`` For the last week at least we 've be flat out try to keep them out the crop a they ripen , '' he say . 
`` A lot of the crop in the district now have sort of ripen , but any crop that be a bit later have take a fair old hammering . 
`` One farmer I think be probably go to give up on a 400 or 500 acre paddock of barley . 

South-west NSW resident pray for rain 
Residents of south-west New South Wales have turn to prayer to break the drought . 
Farmers and town folk have be unite at ecumenical church service . 
More than 100 people come together in Wagga to call for rain , while another inter-faith prayer service take place in Leeton . 
Pastor Michael Skewes say aside from the spiritual value of prayer , it be a strong show of support for those on the land . 
`` I think for the farmer that be here - we saw a number of hand go up and say 'yeah , we 're farmer ' - for them to know that the Wagga community , we in the city really do care for what they 're go through I think that 's get enormous value as well , '' he say . 
In complete contrast , land clear fire rag across Kalimantan and Sumatra could be prompt increased rain across the Top End . 
Over the past 50 year , some station rainfall have increase by up to 300 millimetre . 
Climatologist Sam Cleland say rainfall in part of the Victoria River district and Kimberley be increase by 50 millimetre per decade 
`` It 's potentially that it 's not a direct result of greenhouse gas , '' he say . 
`` It might even be due to increase pollution over South East Asia change the temperature structure of the atmosphere and the temperature gradient between northern Australia and South East Asia in our summer season . 

Grain president resigns after single desk comment 
Wrangling over the single desk 's future in the nation 's large grain grow state have claim a scalp . 
Earlier this week , the Western Australian Farmers Federation 's grain president , Ray Marshall , release a new and alternative policy position , urge the single desk be maintain . 
But , at least for this season , he urge that the power of veto be remove from AWB and transfer to the Wheat Export Authority . 
The statement have divide group member . 

Calls for Biosecurity Aust to be independent authority 'out of line ' 
A war have break out over change to the controversial import risk assessment process . 
The federal Agriculture Minister , Peter McGaruan , announce this week that from next year there will be great scientific scrutiny of the import risk assessment , a regulated time frame and more regular consultation with farmer . 
While the National Farmers Federation say the bulk of it member support the new protocol , chief executive Ben Fargher say call by NSW farmer for Biosecurity Australia to be make into an independent statutory authority be totally out of line . 
`` It be always so important to have unity when talk to government , '' he say . 
`` Disunity when deal with government be death . 

Grape grower welcome trade act change 
Farmers and small business have welcome the passing of amendment to the Trade Practices Act , which simplify collective bargaining . 
Murray Valley Winegrowers have be call for the change for the past three year . 
Chief executive Mike Stone say grower will now be able to genuinely negotiate with winery . 
`` Usually grape buyer give grower a price in say January and unless there 's a dispute resolution provision that allow grower to dispute those price they be take a a give , '' he say . 
`` It 's a take it or leave it proposition often . 

CSIRO NT plant research division close 
The Northern Territory will no longer host a division of CSIRO 's plant industry research . 
That be despite increased interest in northern agriculture with it good water supply , and $ 1 million from the Territory Government to improve the laboratory . 

Darwin resident encourage to save water 
People live across tropical northern Australia be also be urge to conserve water . 
Darwin resident use more than twice the national average amount of water , but it be hop convert garden to suit the dry tropic will help reduce water use . 
Some politician , like independent Gerry Wood , be also call for small dam to be develop in the Daly region , south-west of Darwin . 
`` I think we have to look at thing differently , whether you collect water in off farm dam during the wet season , to pump out in the dry , '' Mr Wood say . 
`` There be certainly potential on the Daly to increase the amount of food . 

Drought fail to deter bank from lending 
Despite the drought , the bank be still keen to lend to farmer . 
Queensland property valuer Kerry Herron say he believe the property market will come back due to the poor seasonal condition . 
He say the boom in recent year have increase landholder ' equity and the bank be particularly willing to lend to buyer in the wetter northern region . 
`` Cattle be still the flavour of the month and they 're still offer very big term , '' Mr Herron say . 
`` We have hear instance of up to 30 year interest only payment , certainly 10 and 15 year interest only be common . 

Climate Institute urge more action on greenhouse emission 
The farmer-funded Climate Institute have launch a national advertising campaign , call on the Federal Government to do more to reduce Australia 's greenhouse gas emission . 
The organisation say the drought have be intensify by climate change and a national carbon trading scheme and increase mandatory renewable energy use target be need . 
In his weekly online radio message the Prime Minister , John Howard , say the Government be spend $ 2 billion on reduce climate change . 
But the Climate Institute 's founder , beef and sheep farmer Mark Wootton , say these measure be not work because greenhouse emission be increase . 
`` Under what be put forward at the moment our greenhouse , the Australian government 's current policy , increase emission by 10 per cent over the last decade and it will increase them by a further 17 per cent by 2020 unless we change what we be do , '' Mr Wootton say . 

Analyst promote forest a answer to energy supply 
An Australian analyst have dismiss the push for more ethanol and biodiesel production , say Australia 's energy future lie in wood . 
Barney Foran , a visit fellow at the Australian National University , say plant 60 million hectare of forest could provide up to 90 per cent of future transport fuel , and 20 per cent of future electricity need . 
He say many different specie of wood could be use , include native tree , and this could provide another source of income for farmer in tough time . 
Mr Foran say fuel processing plant should be build in regional area . 
`` The key here be that we do n't cart wood long distance or else we lose both the economic advantage or more importantly the energy advantage , '' he say . 

Farm Institute report urge rethink on marketing 
An independent farm think tank say the Australian farmer 's share of world agriculture export have fall by almost $ 3 billion in a decade . 
An Australian Farm Institute report , release today , show Chile and Brazil 's agriculture export double in the 10 year to 2004 , while Australia 's export grow by only half that amount . 
Report author Selwyn Helibron say farmer must focus on how to market their product to their customer , or continue to lose market share . 

Crews battle fire near Bathurst 
Fire authority in New South Wales be still try to control a bushfire north-west of Bathurst . 
The fire have burn 1,400 hectare of grazing and scrub country , threaten a number of house . 
The fire jump containment line over the weekend , but be quickly bring back within the line , by ground crew . 

Suspension of WTO talk hamper US effort to fight AWB 
The suspension of World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) talk be make it hard for US farmer and trade official to take action to try to end AWB 's monopoly for export Australian wheat . 
The last Doha round draft call for banning or phase out single-desk monopoly , like AWB , by 2013 . 
But with WTO talk suspend since July , American Farm Bureau trade adviser Dave Salonsen say there be no way for the US to fight AWB . 
`` If they be operate accord to WTO rule , a they exist now and you ca n't see that they 're somehow not follow them , there 's not much opportunity , potentially , to go through a dispute settlement , '' Mr Salonsen say . 
Australia agree in it bilateral free trade deal with the US to address single desk trading in the WTO round . 

30,000 cattle import to Indonesia for Ramadan 
At least 30,000 import cattle have be sell across Indonesia for the Islamic festival of Ramadan . 
The last fast will be break this evening and the food festivity begin with prayer tomorrow morning . 
Greg Pankhurst from Agrogiri Perkasa , the large importer of Australian cattle , say he expect 20,000 cattle will be sell in the coming day . 
But he say feedlot sale have still be slow this year . 
`` We have n't be run off our foot in any way , '' Mr Pankhurst say . 
`` We have go from our traditional 100 a day to 200 a day , which be normal . 
`` So I have 100 per cent increase in sale but the next three or four day we wo n't sell anything because most people have their meat stock in hand . 
`` Traditionally after Labaran , which be tomorrow and Wednesday we will see a little bit of an increase over and above our normal sale . So we will probably sell about 120 to 140 a day . '' 

Livestock price slump 
Sheep and cattle price have slump across the nation , a farmer offload stock they can not fee . 
Sheep have lose nearly 75 per cent of their value in the past four week . 
Yardings in all state have increase substantially , with the southern state hit hard . 
Travis Parsci , from the National Livestock Reporting Service , say the fall be drastic . 
`` In the last fortnight we 've probably see 20 to 30 cent shave off a lot of average price . We have see a lot of the plainer grade suffer even large fall , '' he say . 
`` It 's be cause by the large number of cattle come onto the market , a everyone 's aware , by the dry condtions , the lack of water in particular and also a lack of feed that a lot of producer be face with at the moment . '' 
The drought be also push wool price up . 
News of Australia 's plight be prompt wool buyer to stock up for fear that supply will run out . 
The southern market indicator rise by up to 18 cent at last week 's national sale , the big weekly rise since January . 
Tony Kidman from Quality Wool in south Australia , say buyer also want to avoid buy drought-effected wool , which be less strong than other wool . 

Campdrafting Council seek national endorsement 
Campdrafting official say they be hopeful a bid to have their sport recognise by the Australian Sports Commission will be successful . 
The National Campdraft Council of Australia say while the sport be develop in Australia , it still need to go through the process to become a national sporting organisation . 
Council president Peter Cookson say that recognition be very important to the sport 's funding and future . 
`` It 's give campdrafting credibility , to have thing such a a code of conduct for animal welfare , member protection policy for the protection of our member and their committee and thing like that , '' Mr Cookson say . 

Testing find Aust wildlife free of bird flu 
Ongoing test across Australia 's most susceptible region have find no evidence of the new lethal strain of bird flu in wildlife . 
Last year the H5N1 strain kill thousand of water fowl in China and this year it spread from bird to human in Indonesia . 
Dr John Curran , from the Australian Quarantine Inspection Service , say continue trap and test of wild bird across northern Australia have so far fail to isolate any live influenza virus . 
`` But by the same token we 're still concern that the global epidemic be continue and that this have actually come closer to , the epidemic have come closer to Australia through Indonesia , '' Dr Curran say . 

$ 5m study to determine Gippsland groundwater decline 
The Federal Government have provide $ 5 million for a study to find out once and for all what be cause decline groundwater level in Victoria 's south Gippsland . 
A study by the CSIRO two year ago find subsidence of the Latrobe aquifer be cause mostly by offshore oil and gas production . 
Now the Department of Sustainability will conduct far research to see if irrigators should be compensate . 
Bill Bodman Senior , from the Victorian Farmers Federation , say the aquifer have be drop at the rate of one-metre a year for the last 40 year cost farmer thousand of dollar . 
`` The huge extra cost of lift the water up the extra distance , that 's the major cost in bring water to the surface , '' Mr Bodman say . 

Canola crop failure drop yield forecast 
The Australian Oilseeds Federation say canola yield forecast for 2007 be the low for a decade . 
The estimate for this year 's crop be just 561,000 tonne , due to the failure of many crop across the nation . 

Graincorp to ship wheat to eastern state 
Graincorp be prepare to ship 1 million tonne of wheat from Western Australia to the eastern state , a harvest fail in New South Wales , Victoria and Queensland . 
The bulk handler will require approval from the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service to convert export terminal on the eastern seaboard to import terminal to receive the grain . 
Graincorp 's Sam Tainsh say the grain will be transport by rail as well a sea . 
`` Graincorp be make a number of inland depot available for large volume rail discharge , '' he say . 

Murray Irrigation to introduce cost cutting measure 
The country 's large private irrigation company , Murray Irrigation , expect to lose several million dollar this financial year because of the drought . 
The company will introduce a four day week from mid-November , reduce it weed control program and defer maintenance in a bid to cut cost . 
General manager George Warne say director ' fee will also be reduce by 20 per cent . 

New drought relief package not enough : irrigators 
Irrigators say new Victorian Government drought relief do not go far enough . 
The Victorian Government have announce a $ 5,000 rebate for farmer who receive less than 50 per cent of their water allocation . 
Farmers still pay water authority even when they do not receive water , due to the cost of maintain irrigation channel . 
Chair of the Northern Victorian Irrigators , Dudley Bryant , say with most large dairy and cropping farm pay bill around $ 30,000 , the Government 's offer will only make a small difference . 
`` They have recognise there 's a problem there , '' he say . 
`` They have actually say now that they 'll pick up the cost of water even though there may be a lot of small hobby farmer and whatever , and I 'm not try to say they should or should n't be in it but they be . 

NSW irrigators fight for water fee relief 
Irrigators in New South Wales be currently have no joy in receive assistance for their fixed water charge . 
Only one inland valley have receive a general security allocation this season and there be demand for fee relief across the state . 
Chairman of Jemalong Irrigation Ted Morgan say the New South Wales Government must develop it own assistance package for irrigators . 
`` What we 're really look for be where a set of rule be set up for the valley where , when you have zero allocation some sort of principle kick in like exceptional circumstance , '' he say . 

AWS announces loss 
The wool industry 's grower-funded marketing arm have post a $ 316,000 annual loss . 
Australian Wool Services ' ( AWS ) chairman Barry Walker say the company 's Woolmark brand and market research division both return profit . 
But it processing section , Andar , return a deficit and the company 's substantial debt to a UK pension fund drain $ 1.3 million from the business . 
Mr Walker say the organisation be battle the effect of the drought and would be deeper in debt if it have not cut cost earlier in the year . 
`` I think the management do a huge job to reduce the cost against decreased income to actually get u to a loss factor in the finish of $ 300,000 , '' he say . 
`` We 're find that the whole wool chain , from farm right through to retail , be extremely difficult . 

Govt considers inquiry into forest certification scheme 
The Federal Forestry Minister , Eric Abetz , say a push by international green group to reclassify the sustainable status of Australian timber pose a serious threat to export . 
He say he may set up an inquiry to investigate the disparity between classification system use to grade old-growth logging in Indonesia , PNG and Australia . 
Senator Abetz say the Government be determine to resist a push by the Mexico-based Forest Stewardship Council for Australian timber to lose it 'A ' rating among some European customer . 
`` These group be then bad mouth Australia 's forest product in country like the United Kingdom and Belgium , '' he say . 

Growers back forest biofuels industry development 
A national group represent commercial and private forest grower have throw it support behind the development of a forest biofuels industry . 
Australian Forest Growers be hold it international conference in Launceston this week and the association 's president , David Geddes , say such an industry could be an opportunity for drought-affected farmer . 
He say tree be less susceptible to drought than other crop and the wood thinning would be a valuable source of biofuel . 

US beef export to Korea delayed 
A technical issue be delay the resumption of US beef export to Korea . 
US packer have hop for an agreement with South Korea on a `` bone chip '' definition this month after the Koreans agree in early September to resume import of US boneless beef . 
US Agriculture Department deputy under-secretary , Chuck Lambert , write to the Koreans over a month ago and have not have a response . 
`` The producer segment in Korea 's be very oppose to reopen the market , so there be a lot of political pressure in opposition to reopen the market , but the agreement have be that we would open for boneless beef , '' he say . 
But the Koreans have say they will have zero tolerance for bone chip . 

Industry , Govt urge to take mining exploration seriously 
The mining industry say Australia be send billion of dollar overseas because of a lack of incentive for local exploration . 
Australian company be at the forefront of an exploration boom in region like Africa and South America , which offer attractive tax and cost incentive . 
While mineral exploration worldwide have hit a record high of more than $ US5 billion annually , Australia 's share have halve in 10 year . 
Justin Walawski from the Association of Mining and Exploration Companies say it be time for industry and the Government to take the issue seriously . 

Captive breeding set to boost tuna stock 
A South Australian company say it could duplicate Australia 's entire wild catch of more than 5,000 tonne of tuna within a decade through captive breeding . 
This follow the successful airlift of nine southern bluefin tuna from offshore sea cage into a $ 6 million tank build by Clean Seas Tuna at Arno Bay . 
The fish will be use to spawn million of egg for harvest in the world 's first captive breeding program for the specie . 
Chairman Hagen Stehr say he could not put a price on the brood stock . 

Hobby farmer work on solve sheep shearing problem 
It be hard to find a shearer if you be a hobby farmer and perhaps have just half a dozen pet sheep . 
But the grow number of hobby farmer in Western Australia 's south-west be work on the problem . 
The local community of Manjimup have it sheep shorn , drench and de-loused for a small fee , with all proceeds to be donate back into the community . 
Local shearer Ron Nivon say it be the best way to handle the region 's increase number of pet sheep . 
`` This be the best thing that ever happen . I think we 've be do it for over 20 year . It 's a great cause , '' he say . 
`` You do n't have that phone ringing and nuisance phone call ask for five or six sheep shorn when you should be out do three or 4,000 sheep . 

CBH set to launch wheat export pool 
Australia 's troubled wheat exporter AWB have another force to deal with today with Western Australia 's large grain bulk handler , CBH , attempt to launch a wheat export pool of it own this harvest . 
As Western Australian grower consider how they will sell their wheat crop this season , the company today have launch an export licence to test the power of veto that AWB have over it single desk licence . 
A previous attempt and subsequent appeal by CBH last December be lose . 
CBH chief executive Imre Mencshelyi say the new move will not undermine the single desk and will put more money into grower pocket this season . 
`` We 've agonise over that decision for sometime and today we 're launch the CBH wheat pool for 2 million tonne volume for West Australian grain grower , '' he say . 
`` At the end of the day we recognise there 'll be divide opinion on what we 'll be put out in the market place but the grower will have this opportunity to deliver and they 'll vote by their action . '' 
AWB 's Ian Donges say that the export application be an attack on the single desk , and will not necessarily result in grower be pay a high price over the life of the propose CBH pool . 
Meanwhile , AWB have increase it new season pool return for premium wheat to $ 245 a tonne , up $ 5 . 

Gold mine operator agree to provide water to farmer 
Farmers have have a breakthrough in their dispute with the new Lake Cowal gold mine in the central west of New South Wales , which have have a dramatic impact on local bore water level . 
The water level have drop from 20 metre to 50 metre below ground level . 
Lachlan Valley Water 's Mary Ewing say the company have now agree to provide stock and domestic water to farmer , if the water table continue to drop . 
`` One of the requirement be that if those trigger level be approach , you have to continue to supply the impacted stock and domestic , '' she say . 
`` So while there be water there I guess stock and domestic will be maintain . 

Anger over late drought assistance 
Farm-related business be angry they have be leave out of the Federal Government 's extended drought assistance package . 
An extra $ 560 million have be allocate to extend assistance to 10,000 more farmer in five state , on top of last week 's $ 350 million announcement . 
The president of the Australian Contract Harvesters Association , Peter Bradley , say agriculture-reliant business , like harvester , be also struggle to survive the summer . 
`` We 've be ask and ask and ask the Federal Government for some assistance , but it 's get to the stage where it 's totally and absolutely critical at this stage that we do at least get interest rate subsidy on our financing . '' 
But the drought package have be welcome by the National Farmers Federation and the Association of Rural Financial Counselling Services . 
And the Country Womens Association president , Lesley Young , say the $ 4 million her organisation have receive will allow it to revive emergency aid program . 

Lower canola yield a boost return 
The huge drop in canola production have send price up as high a $ 555 a tonne at east coast port , almost double last year 's return . 
Canola yield forecast for 2007 be the low for a decade due to the drought , down to just 561,000 tonne , a third of the size of last year 's crop . 
Australian Wheat Forecasters analyst Ron Storey say canola will have to be transport from coast to coast to meet crushing requirement . 
`` Most of the canola crop this year will be in Western Australia , we look like have you know something under half a million tonne of canola in total and more than half of that be go to be in WA , '' he say . 

Farmers to import alternative dairy cattle fee 
Dairy farmer will continue to use alternative feed such a palm kernel meal a grain supply tighten . 
Farmers in Victoria say grain price have jump from $ 215 to $ 360 per tonne in recent week . 
Brian Bailey , from grain price monitoring company AWF , say dairy farmer will have to import more of the alternative feed . 
`` You can get the requirement of energy protein and amino acid from product such a palm kernel meal which come from Malaysia , '' he say . 

Grain price rise hit chicken producer 
Increased grain price be also affect chicken meat producer and processor . 
Philip Schmidt from the South Australian Farmers Federation say grain make up the large expense for producer , who will struggle to cut cost elsewhere . 
`` The cost of grain be rise quite significantly over the last year to approximately nationally about 80 per cent already increase , '' he say . 

Wine glut prompt call for structural change 
A new report on Australia 's wine industry say our stock have balloon to an estimate two billion litre , a global wine production grows faster then demand . 
The study by the Australian Bureau of Agricultural Resource Economics also warn Australia have no ability to influence the world wine market , because it have only 5 per cent of global production . 
Chris Byrne , from the Riverland Wine Grape Growers Association , say serious structural change be need . 
`` We 're produce more than double the amount of wine grape we need from those region that can not afford to grow popular premium product , '' he say . 
`` You have to solve that by work with grower and wine-makers to decide which region can not be sustainable . 

Mixed response to CBH 's wheat export push 
There have be mixed reaction in Western Australia to the state 's main grain handler CBH launch a bid to export two million tonne of wheat this harvest . 
CBH announce it would offer grain grower $ 265-275 a tonne , top the offer of monopoly exporter AWB . 
The Western Australian Farmers Federation say the plan encourage short-term thinking and it be worry about the impact of take so much grain from the national pool . 
But Leon Bradley , from the Pastoralists and Graziers Association , say grower should have another wheat export option . 
`` Well the main benefit be too obvious to state , '' he say . 
`` $ 20 or $ 30 above AWB 's estimate , which be very significant in a low production year in term of farm profitability . '' 
Meanwhile , the federal Treasurer , Peter Costello , have far open division in the Coalition over the future of the single desk wheat export system . 
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile say the Government remain committed to the single desk until the Cole inquiry into AWB kickback allegation report . 
But Mr Costello have suggest wheat grower should get the chance to export wheat at the high rate be offer by CBH . 

Dairy farmer co-op announces profit increase 
The Sydney-based Dairy Farmers Co-operative have announce a 25 per cent increase in it profit for the last financial year . 
The co-operative have pose a $ 17.4 million profit at a meeting in Sydney today . 

Group to consider moratorium over land clearing 
An important meeting of land manager be take place today in the Northern Territory 's Douglas Daly region , south-west of Darwin . 
Allocation of water and land clear head the agenda of the Government-appointed advisory group , which be prepare to make recommendation . 
Pastoralists , like Diana Elliot of Kingfisher Station , want the moratorium over land clearing lift quickly . 
She say broken promise about development have prompt some investor to consider seek compensation . 
`` At the moment we have clear one-seventh of our block , and we would be look to clear at least say 30 per cent , '' she say . 

Seaweed fertiliser help farmer battle frost 
Farmers be use seaweed fertiliser a a way to protect horticultural crop from frost . 
Victoria have have several frost in the past month , with cherry , grape , stone fruit and apple crop be damage . 
Scientists believe the liquid fertiliser work by harden the plant cell , so the frost can not pull the moisture out of the fruit . 
Consultant Dr Colin Young , a former Melbourne University chemistry professor , say there be limitation to the seaweed 's effect . 
`` It take 12 hour to kick in and then give you reasonable protection for two week then it start to decrease , '' he say . 

Tas couple take out top tree farm award 
Tasmanians John and Diana Lord have be declare Australia 's top tree farmer . 
The Lords , from Longford in the state 's north , win the title from among six other state finalist at the Australian Forest Growers international conference in Launceston last night . 
The family start tree farming in the 1980s and now manage three forest property and a 1,200-hectare mixed farm . 
John Lord say his philosophy have be to plant tree on abandon farmland where native bush can not be re-established . 
`` Over the past couple of decade we 've buy some land that be derelict , mainly on the Western Tiers , '' he say . 

Cherries make $ 55,000 for charity 
A record $ 55,000 have be pay for two box of the season 's first cherry at a charity auction in Sydney . 
They be buy by the owner of a chain of fruit shop in Sydney and will be distribute to child in hospital . 
Cherry Growers president Ian Hay say there be fierce competition to supply the charity box between grower from Griffith in New South Wales and the South Australian Riverland . 
`` They actually have a competition in the central market to get the best box of cherry and they could n't split between these two case so they actually put up two case , '' he say . 

Daylight save bill introduce to WA Parliament 
After year of resistance , Western Australians could have daylight save in place by this summer . 
A bill will be introduce into State Parliament today to set-up a daylight save trial from the start of December . 
If the bill be pass , a referendum will take place after three summer , in 2009 . 

PM to hear farmer ' drought concern 
Farmers will put their concern about the Federal Government 's drought assistance package to the Prime Minister today . 
John Howard have start a two day tour of drought hit region in New South Wales , a dryland farmer call for grant to re-sow their crop when the drought break . 
Mr Howard say now that the Federal Government have commit a total of $ 2.1 billion in drought assistance , it be time for the state to do their part in the form of water rate relief . 
Mr Howard be particularly critical of the NSW Government because he say some of the Federal Government 's drought assistance be go straight into their coffer for water charge . 

Drought stricken area to receive extra funding 
The South Australian Government will provide a further $ 4 million to help drought stricken farm family and community . 
Some of the new measure include $ 1.3 million for stamp-duty relief , $ 330,000 for more rural financial counselling service and fund to help the SA Farmers Federation ( SAFF ) coordinate exceptional circumstance application . 
State Agriculture Minister Rory McEwen say much of South Australia still have to mount a case for drought assistance . 
`` We be provide resource to both SAFF to coordinate the application and to community or industry group that 's do the application , the resource they need to actually put the application together , '' he say . 
`` The challenge in South Australia of course be a whole lot of u be n't EC declare . 

Rain prospect improve 
There be an improved prospect of rain for some part of Australia over summer . 
The National Climate Centre 's late climate outlook still predict some of the country 's most drought affected land will stay dry than normal over the next three month . 
South-east Queensland and much of New South Wales will only have a 30 to 40 per cent chance of receive above average rainfall . 
And a hot summer be still forecast for most of eastern Australia , with the confirmation of the El Nino weather pattern . 
But meteorologist Grant Beard say it be not all bad news , a some area could get above average rainfall . 
`` It 's more encouraging for northern and north-west Queensland , '' he say . 
`` There 's an increased likelihood of wet than average condition there and it 's not quite as discourage a it be in the south-east of the country as well where the probability have rise from around about 40 per cent or a bit lower last outlook . 

Govt grant to help cut dairy processor 's water use 
The major dairy processor in Victoria , Murray Goulburn , be receive assistance from the Bracks Government to help it cut back on it water use . 
The Murray Goulburn plant in Leongatha in Gippsland be one of the big water consumer in the region . 
Chairman of Murray Goulburn Ian McAulay say he hop the $ 1.6 million government grant will mean there be more water leave for local town and farm . 
`` This one be quite significant , '' he say . 

Project to boost truckie number 
The transport industry be hold out it arm to farmer need employment during the drought . 
A short course in truck driving be be offer at Wodonga in Victoria by the National Industrial Skills Training Centre to allow farmer to re-train a truckies . 
Manager Sput Lowry say the project will help boost driver number . 

Govt urge to acquire Snowy Hydro 
A New South Wales parliamentary inquiry have call on the Federal Government to acquire Snowy Hydro , but to guarantee the electricity generator remain in public hand . 
Inquiry chairman the Reverend Gordon Moyes say Snowy Hydro need a capital injection of $ 800 million to remain viable in the national electricity market , but that share hold government be reluctant to fund it . 

Bananas not to blame for inflation rise : wholesaler 
The Queensland fruit and vegetable industry say it be ridiculous to blame inflation on the price of banana . 
The late consumer price figure rise 0.9 per cent in the three month to September , with the federal Treasurer single out banana price a a factor . 
And on the basis of the CPI , the Reserve Bank be expect to increase interest rate next month . 
But Brisbane wholesaler Tony Joseph say while banana price have go through the roof , there have only be 10 per cent of normal supply on the market . 
`` Bananas have be as high a 130 , $ 140 a case , which be way above their normal price , most probably around the mid-20s when we 've get a full supply of banana , '' he say . 

Cloned animal product may reach US shelf 
Consumers in the US may see meat and dairy product from clone animal on their supermarket shelf next year . 
The US Food and Drug Administration have submit draft recommendation to Washington , which appear to support the sale of product from clone animal , quote research that say the food will be as safe a that from conventionally-bred animal . 
The sale of cloned animal product be currently prohibit in the US . 
But Scott Kinnear , from the Biological Farmers of Australia , say organic farmer be watch the issue with concern . 
`` We do n't think that clone food be necessarily safe for the long-term , '' he say . 

NSW cherry grower to push for southern market 
New South Wales cherry grower will renew a push today to get their fruit into southern Australian market by raise the issue when the Prime Minister visit Goulburn . 
The producer have be stop from get fruit into these market because of concern over fruit fly . 
National Cherry Growers president , Ian Hay , say despite international market accept fruit fly management protocol , southern state will not accept them . 
`` If we can do protocol to get fruit safely overseas , surely we have get to be able to move it across the country as well , '' he say . 
`` If we do n't make sure we have tidy up that homework here in Australia , those country to protect their border and decide they wo n't need a tariff , they will just turn around and say , 'hey you ca n't even get cherry out of NSW into Victoria . ' 

Mine to reopen due to surge gold price 
The Bronzewing gold mine in central Western Australia be set to reopen on the back of climb gold price . 
The mine and it extraction plant and accommodation village have be mothball for the past three year after be buy for $ 9 million by View Resources . 
Managing director Tim Gooch say the company have secure debt financing and say strong investor support and current market condition could see the open cut and underground mine operating again within month . 
`` We 've be model on around $ A800 an ounce , '' he say . 

Vets to audit captive devil after tumour discovery 
Vets in Tasmania be conduct an audit of a wildlife park in the north of the State after the discovery this week of two devil with the devastate facial tumour disease . 
It be the first time the disease have be find within a captive population . 
It have already wipe out half the wild devil population . 
Veterinary pathologist Stephen Pyecroft say a yet there be no screen test available for the disease , so it be a wait game for the rest of the devil at the wildlife park . 
`` One of the area that we have be look at reasonably closely since the start of the program be to try to get an indicator test or the thing that we be sort of call a clinical test for the cancer , '' he say . 

Northern pastoralists not convince about daylight save 
The debate about introduce a three-year trial for daylight save in Western Australia have leave pastoralists in the tropic feeling exclude . 
The daylight save Bill be introduce to Parliament this week and be expect to receive support from most MPs . 
If it pass , clock will be put forward an hour in December . 
But one pastoralist in the Kimberley , where it be already 39 degree Celsius each day , say it will not advantage him . 
`` We normally start very early , '' he say . 

Trading hour row close Palace Hotel 
One of the country 's most famous outback hotel have call last drink for the last time after fail to win a bid to trade for 24 hour . 
The Palace Hotel in Broken Hill open in the 1880s and achieve worldwide fame by appear in the film Priscilla , Queen of the Desert . 
But last night , owner Marat Celotto shut the door , say his business be doom follow the council 's refusal to extend his trading hour . 
`` It 's a very hard decision at the moment , '' he say . 

Rural income predict to slump 
A major bank be forecast rural income will fall by 60 per cent this financial year . 
The National Australia Bank predict income will drop by $ 4.6 billion from last year to just $ 3 billion . 
But the bank 's Jeff Oughton do not believe it will push farmer off the land . 
`` I do n't think a lot of farmer will be leave the industry , go into this drought we 've see farm property value rise very strongly over the past five year , '' he say . 

ABARE farm production estimate lower again 
There be another gloomy forecast from the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) today . 
It have far lower it estimate for this year 's drought-hit wheat harvest to 9.5 million tonne , the small crop since 1995 . 
It say the national barley crop could drop 64 per cent on last year , with canola yield down 69 per cent . 
ABARE also say beef earnings be expect to fall 13 per cent . 

PM 's drought tour focus on irrigation 
The Prime Minister be continue his tour of drought-affected area of New South Wales and today the focus be on the irrigation industry . 
Tonight at Finley , in the Riverina , the local will gather to pray for rain . 
But today , they be ask the John Howard for help . 
On a visit to a dairy farm , Mr Howard hear that with zero water allocation , producer have be force to pay high price for temporary water . 
That , couple with rise cost of feed grain , be put the squeeze on farm finance . 
Mr Howard be also expect to meet with local community leader later this afternoon . 
Meanwhile , young farmer , harvester and other farm contractor say the drought assistance package probably will not be enough to keep many of them on the land . 
Western NSW crop spray contractor , Andrew Oliver , who speak to Mr Howard yesterday , say he and his friend be sick of watch their business run down . 

Frost devastates Clare Valley vineyard 
Another of South Australia 's premium wine region have be devastate by frost . 
The Barossa Valley , Coonawarra and Padthway have experience crop loss range from 20 and 90 per cent . 
Now the Clare Valley , north of Adelaide , have also be hit . 
Trelawney Vineyard manager Tracey Sandow estimate last weekend 's big freeze ruin hundred of tonne of grape . 
`` The frost come in Saturday morning and anything on the low lie area of the vineyard be basically blacken off completely , '' she say . 

Storms bring good and bad to mid-west farmer 
It have be a mix of pain and good fortune for Western Australia 's farmer and pastoralists , after wild storm tear through the Gascoyne , Murchison and part of the mid-west and northern wheatbelt . 
Strong wind and rainfall of 60 to 90 millimetre destroy some farm crop and damage fence . 
But far north , pastoralists have welcome the rain after such a dry winter . 
Geoff Pilkington from Kirkalocka Station , south of Mt Magnet , say strong wind and hail create a fierce storm . 
`` Dark sky and threaten for most of the morning and then the heaven just open and it be just amazing , '' he say . 
`` At the mine site and in Mt Magnet town site , there be huge hail stone and apparently they be the size of golf ball and two or three inch thick on the ground , so it 's just an amazing event . '' 

Tobacco grower vote to accept exit package 
Australia no longer have a legal tobacco grow industry . 
Tobacco be grow in Queensland and Victoria , but British American Tobacco and Phillip Morris have now announce they will be withdraw from Australia by 2008 because overseas crop be cheap . 
Growers in both state yesterday vote to accept an exit package make up of $ 15 million from the tobacco company and $ 17 million from the Federal Government . 
That amount to a maximum payment of $ 150,000 per grower , which producer say be an offer too good to refuse . 
Queensland Nationals Senator Ron Boswell say the Government hop the tobacco farmer will be able to find alternative crop , but admit it will be difficult . 
`` In the case of Merribra it 's a long way from the market so it 's difficult to find something they can grow commercially , but some of the farm may go over to sugar which be do okay at the moment , '' he say . 

GM cotton get green light in northern Australia 
The Office of the Gene Technology Regulator have approve the commercial release of genetically modify ( GM ) cotton for northern Australia . 
It be satisfied that five variety of GM cotton design to be herbicide and insect resistant will have minimum impact on tropical environment . 
The decision be unlikely to benefit Western Australia 's Kimberley region , since the State Government have a moratorium on all GM crop until 2008 . 
But Cotton Australia 's Philip Russell say there be now nothing stop farmer in north Queensland grow it commercially when price pick up . 
`` In Queensland there 's no moratorium and we certainly have some interested people up in the Burdekin area of north Queensland who potentially could grow cotton , '' he say . 

Bega Cheese chalk up $ 10.5m profit 
It be a record profit year , despite the drought , for New South Wales base dairy business Bega Cheese . 
It post a $ 10.5 million profit on a $ 280 million turnover . 
The Bega Dairy Co-op employ more than 500 people , export to 50 country and produce Australia 's top-selling domestic cheese brand . 
Chairman Barry Irvin say all the Co-op profit be return to the 100 farmer owner , to help see them through the bad drought in a century . 

Nickel mining reveals promise result 
Underground miner at Australia 's new nickel mine have intersect the first of a number of a high grade nickel sulphide ore body . 
The Flying Fox mine at Forestania , 400 kilometre east of Perth , host one of the high grade nickel deposit in the world . 
The price of nickel be currently at a record high . 
Western Areas NL manage director Julian Hanna say it be just the beginning of a long-term nickel operation . 
`` Initially that ore will be toll treat at a nearby treatment plant to produce a nickel concentrate which will end up be export to Canada , '' he say . 

Waste water scheme to benefit Tamworth farm 
Tamworth council in north-west New South Wales have showcased one of the first environmental spin-off of a planned waste water project . 
It be a 140 hectare wedge of rehabilitated grassy box woodlands at the edge of what will become a farm which re-uses the city 's water and effluent to grow crop . 
Tamworth regional water augmentation manager Nigel Thompson say the project have environmental bonus for the city . 

Wage increase cause concern 
Agricultural employer be voice their concern about the Australian Fair Pay Commission 's wage increase to low-paid worker . 
The commission yesterday grant worker on less than $ 700 a week an extra $ 27.36 in their pay packet . 
The National Farmers Federation say it be disappoint with the decision . 
And Michael Badcock , from grower group AUSVEG , say the increase will make it hard for Australia to compete with imported fruit and vegetable . 
`` It 's go to put vegetable farmer in Australia in a very bad position , '' he say . 
`` We 've get a lot of pressure with cheap import come into Australia and now all of a sudden we 've get to pay this extra increase in wage . 
`` It 's go to make it very difficult for u to compete in the global market . '' 
The Australian Workers Union , which represent many low-paid employee in agriculture , say the increase be good but could have be well . 
Organiser Terry O'Connor admit he be pleasantly surprise by the decision . 

Minister to sport new 'cat in the hat ' headgear 
Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell be get an unusual present in the mail from King Island in northern Tasmania . 
It be a hat make from a feral cat pelt collect during the island 's cat trap program . 
Senator Campbell be on King Island recently and mention he would not mind a hat a a reminder of his trip . 
Hat maker Robyn Eades say she hop the size be right for a politician 's head . 

Tassie cow get leg up 
The famous three-legged Tasmanian cow call Theresa be back on all four after be fit with a prosthetic leg this week . 
Theresa break a back leg in July when she fell down a river bank and her owner have the leg amputate . 
After considerable medium coverage , offer of wooden leg come from across Australia and an artificial limb maker from Launceston deliver on the challenge . 
Theresa 's owner , Geoff Heazlewood , say he never expect to see his heifer with a wooden leg . 
`` No I do n't , it be sort of one of those silly idea that become reality I guess , '' he say . 

Fishing industry want govt help to keep business afloat 
The fishing industry be try to adapt to the recent Federal Government buyback of 400 fishing licence . 
The buyback have lead to a 70 per cent drop in fish be supply to the Twofold fishing co-operative at Eden on the south coast of New South Wales . 
But chairman Fritz Drenkhahn say member be chase federal assistance to keep the business afloat . 
`` The decision of the member be yes to go ahead to strive in all direction to maintain it open [ but ] a lot hinge on the business assistance package which we 'll be apply for , '' he say . 

Pig ad campaign misleading , say pork producer group 
Animal right activist have launch a new advertising campaign against pig farming . 
The ad , put together by the group Voiceless and Animals Australia , depict pig in small pen with minimal room and piglet have their eye teeth clip . 
But Australian Pork Limited say the campaign be mislead . 
Spokesman Andrew Spencer say the ad be design to be emotional and be not an accurate reflection of how pig be grow commercially in Australia . 
`` The type of word they 're use be not try to portray the independent view of the way pig be raise , '' he say . 

Wool price spike 
The wool market have hit a two year high . 
The eastern market indicator rise a further 3 per cent last week to close on 782 cent a kilogram . 
The big price hike be for wool in the medium 19 to 24 micron range , up between 30 and 59 cent a kilogram in Sydney . 
Chairman of Inland New South Wales Wool Brokers Rowan Woods say buyer be become worry about future supply . 
`` This have to come . I think there be a real perception or a realisation from the trade that supply will be tight , '' he say . 
`` The number of stock that be be sell . You have only get to look at Wagga - 250,000 sheep roughly in a month down there . A hell of a big dent in the number of sheep that will supply wool to the trade . 

Work visa crackdown wo n't stop exploitation , say union 
The Meat Industry Union say a new crack down on temporary work visa will not stop migrant exploitation . 
The Federal Government will set up an investigative strike force to make sure employer be comply with the condition of the 457 visa , which allow skilled overseas worker into Australia . 
Union spokesman Russell Carr say problem be mainly in small meat processing worker , which be largely un-unionised . 
`` What would be good be what would have apply before the industrial law change to allow union right of access to those workplace and union will check that out for free of charge for the taxpayer , '' he say . 

Beef producer urge not to vote in MLA election 
The Australian Beef Association ( ABA ) say beef producer should not bother voting in this year 's board election for peak body Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) . 
The renegade lobby group have fail to win previous resolution to remove director from the MLA board and have not submit any this year . 
President Linda Hewitt say it be pointless to vote because ABA resolution can be veto by the MLA board . 
But MLA manage director David Palmer say that have never occur . 
`` All I can say be that we should just look at history . Several resolution have come up year after year , '' he say . 
`` Some from the board , some from the registered levy payer , all have be vote upon and all have be act upon and no veto have be apply from board 's or from council of that matter . '' 

Livestock transporter fear for future 
Some livestock transporter fear they will be force to leave the industry because of the drought . 
Transporters , who face hundred of thousand of dollar in operational cost , be not include in the Federal Government 's recent $ 700 million drought package . 
President of the Livestock Transporter 's Association Mark Sullivan say while operator have be keep busy cart thousand of drought affect sheep and cattle , that will soon slow down a stock number dwindle . 
`` I be speak to a couple of Victorian member , they reckon their workload be fairly hectic , but what they 're worried about be when it come [ during ] January and February , when the impact of it happen , what they 're go to do next , '' he say . 

ACT officially in drought 
The ACT have be drought-declared , give 90 farmer access to federal and local government assistance . 
As part of the package , rate will not have to be pay and rural lease payment will be defer . 
The ACT Government also plan to give farmer transport subsidy , in line with New South Wales . 
Grazier Tony Griffin say he would normally be able to cut enough silage for next winter , but not this year . 
`` I 've get five semi-loads of hay start today actually , '' he say . 
`` We 're get it from western NSW , it 's really failed wheat crop . '' 
Meanwhile Australia 's drought and it human toll be get a lot of attention in the United States . 
US agriculture official be watch the Australian drought disaster closely and not just it impact on US wheat prospect , but it toll on life . 
From a USDA reporter : `` A farmer suicide every four day ... that 's what 's happen in Australia right now , accord to a mental health group there . '' 
And USDA meteorologist Harlan Shannon say a develop El Nino could mean more hot , dry weather for Australian grain and livestock . 
`` It 's not go to be good for Australian farmer , at least , historically speak , it have n't be , And so , if it do continue to intensify , the road ahead do n't look too good , '' he say . 

Cyclone recovery work boost local economy : economist 
There be claim today that north Queensland 's economy will end up $ 400 million good off because of cyclone Larry and Monica . 
Cyclone damage have be estimate at around $ 500 million while insurance payouts and government assistance be say to total up to 900 million . 
Cairns economist Bill Cummings say the recovery work have also boost the economy . 

Vine heating may eliminate frost damage 
An Australian physicist say frost damage in vineyard could be eliminate if vine themselves be heat . 
Most frost prevention measure concentrate on heat the air around the vine to stop frost forming . 
The University of New England be research whether electric cable can be trail around vine to heat them by one or two degree , to prevent grape bud from freeze . 
Associate Professor Dr David Lamb say the system first appear in France , but have never be try in Australia . 

Land right anniversary commemorate 
The anniversary of land right in South Australia have be commemorate in the state 's far north-west . 
The Pitjantjatjara people be give freehold title to 103 square kilometre under an agreement with the State Government in 1981 . 
It be the first deal of it type in Australia . 
State Aboriginal Affairs Minister Jay Weatherill say the anniversary come at a time when government need to rethink their approach to Aboriginal community . 
`` This be the first place in Australia that give freehold title to a community so it 's a very important occasion , '' he say . 

Imported feed grain expect to ease shortage 
The Federal Government expect the first import of feed grain for livestock to arrive in Australia in January to ease loom shortage . 
More than 40 import application be be assess from company want to fill shortfall cause by the drought . 
Biosecurity Australia officer be make the first assessment of wheat , maize and sorghum in the UK , Canada and the UK . 
But Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the import be not likely to make a major difference in price . 
`` It 's a question of balance that we have a million cattle in feedlot at present and of course the dairy , pig meat and chicken industry be terribly dependent on grain , '' he say . 
`` So for those who be able to produce grain we do n't want to suppress their price and in any event I do n't think the amount be able to be import will amount to a flood . '' 
Meanwhile the drought have force South Australian grain marketing company ABB to accept poor quality grain . 
The company have reduce it screening for malt barley and will accept small and less plump grain . 
ABB 's Lyndon Asser say the move will benefit grower a the company try to secure more supply . 

Organised crime target by fish Bill 
Organised crime in the fishing industry will be target by tough new penalty if the State Government 's Fisheries Management Bill become law . A recent study by the Australian Institute of Criminology have reveal organised criminal activity in the industry with syndicate operate across state boundary . South Australia 's director of Fisheries Will Zacharin say this be one of the reason why tough penalty for illegal fishing have be include in the Bill which be introduce to Parliament last week . Mr Zacharin say it also include a demerit point system for commercial licence holder . 

Locusts take department `` by surprise '' 
The director of agriculture Don Plowman say there be little his department could have do to stop the damage cause by locust to crop grow in the Coorabie district of the far west . And he say the explosion of locust hatching take both Primary Industries SA and local grower by by surprise . Mr Plowman be respond to criticism by grain grower in the Coorabie district who say they do n't get practical help from the department to stop the pest damage their crop . He say the department will monitor the situation over summer and autumn.Strong gain for wool 
The best price rise for wool in two year be achieve at last week 's national wool sale , Elders wool manager Mark Rodda report . He say this reflect concern by overseas buyer that Australia 's drought will reduce supply and they will not be able to secure the wool they need . Mr Rodda say the best increase be in the medium to broad wool . Nineteen micron wool jump 27cents/kilogram to finish at 953c/kg clean ; 21m be up 51c to 815c/kg ; 22m increase by 57c to 787c and the 23m rise 49c to 756c . 

Farmers to bear high feed cost 
The drought be expect to push up food price with few crop and more expensive water . 
But consumer will not be the only one bear the increase cost . 
Market vegetable price to consumer be expect to rise by at least 30 per cent but many grower be lock into fix contract with processor . 
In some state dairy farmer have contract price or be pay base on world price and so will have to bear some of the the high cost of cattle fee themselves . 
Chicken meat be expect to rise by about 15 per cent , but although red meat price will rise in the long term , initially price fluctuation be expect to be absorb by retailer . 
Breakfast cereal will rise . 

Govt urge to take control over vegetable import 
Unions in Tasmania be call for the Federal Government to take great control over vegetable import to save Australia 's processing industry . 
About 10 job be expect to be lose at a McCain Foods ' plant in north-west Tasmania because of a loss of sale . 
Anne Urquart from the Manufacturing Workers Union say import , a rise in home brand and a lack of country-of-origin labelling be put processor under pressure . 
`` I 'm really concern since it 's only 12 month since the farmer have a very large rally that identify the concern about not only the labelling but the actual importing of frozen vegetable , '' she say . 

US company test South Korean import protocol 
A shipment of US beef have arrive in South Korea for the first time in nearly three year but exporter appear nervous about the future of the market . 
The US Agriculture Department say the consignment be from a company test new import protocol design to minimise the risk of mad cow disease . 
But other company be wait to see how it be receive in a market now dominate by Australia . 
US Department of Agriculture Deputy Undersecretary Chuck Lambert say despite Korea 's market reopening to US boneless beef on September 11 after a 2003 mad cow case , the US industry remain reluctant to ship , even though one US firm ship nine tonne this week . 
`` The reluctance to ship have be by the US industry , relate to concern about how Korea might handle finding of small piece of bone , or bone chip . We have have one company who have elect to test the system , '' he say . 
Mr Lambert be still wait on Seoul for a response to his letter , ask the Koreans for more flexibility in how they deal with bone chip , cartilage and muscle membrane . 
Korea 's major retailer be not place order for the U-S beef . 
Quarantine authority will take the next 10 day to inspect the first shipment for bone fragment . 
But Meat and Livestock Australia 's regional manager in Korea Glen Feist say Korean retail chain be not yet ready to welcome back US product . 
`` Obviously over the last nearly three year now we 've make very strong relationship with these guy and they 're all indicate to u that they 'll take a wait and see attitude a well , '' he say . 

Natural gas sector push for role in greenhouse gas fight 
Australia 's natural gas sector want to know why it be not play a great role in the push to reduce greenhouse gas emission . 
The Federal Government be fund two research project in Queensland to extract methane from coal , with any carbon dioxide emission to be bury underground . 
But the Australian Pipeline Industry Association have question the continued reliance on coal while renewable energy source come on line . 
Chief executive Cheryl Cartwright say there be enough known natural gas reserve in Australia to last 100 year and it would make good environmental sense to start use it . 
`` Instead of rely on coal fire generation in the immediate term and the medium term , we can start to reduce greenhouse gas emission , '' she say . 
`` Certainly not to the level that renewable energy provide , which be almost zero but natural gas greenhouse emission in energy generation be far low than coal . '' 
Federal Resources Minister Ian Macfarlane say coal will remain a feature of global energy generation for the next century . 
Mr Macfarlane say Australia be lead the research into clean burning and emission technology , and the natural gas sector should see itself a a part of that . 
`` They 're promote their side of the industry , the Government be promote a broad mix , we need to make sure a we announce that mix we get it right , '' he say . 

Senate committee hears grain grower ' concern 
The Wheat Export Authority say it have not yet hold talk with the Federal Government about increase power to regulate wheat export . 
Officers have tell the Senate estimate agriculture committee that they expect the authority 's role to change in the wake of the Cole inquiry . 
But committee chairman , Liberal Senator Bill Heffernan have tell the hearing that concern among grower over low pool payment and AWB 's service agreement , mean there be pressure to change the system . 
`` It 's a if you 've discover a betrayal , a sense of betrayal , amongst a lot of wheat grower and to get the sense of betrayal , they say a picture paint a thousand word , '' he say . 

Scientists want extra funding for CO2 storage project 
Australian scientist be call on the Federal Government to double it funding for project which store carbon dioxide underground . 
The federal and state government have announce a $ 2 billion low emission technology fund to help reduce emission from coal , oil and gas mining . 
Peter Cook from the CRC for Greenhouse Gas Technologies be help to design Australia 's first project to store carbon dioxide in Victoria 's Otway Basin . 
He say the funding be not enough . 
`` Almost half of Australia 's total emission come from what we call stationary source , in other word from power station , '' he say . 

Irrigation pump on unregulated stream stop 
The drought have force an early halt to irrigation pump on unregulated stream and river in New South Wales . 
The Department of Natural Resources say it be unprecedented to see water level fall so low in so many river system this early in the season . 
Water level have reach precarious level in southern , northern and far western region , while in the central west pumping be expect to be halt within day . 
Spokesman David Harris say he have never see so many creek and river dry up so early . 
`` This year be just horrendous , we 've just have no winter flow , we 've have no spring flow and a a consequence most of the unregulated stream have just stop flow , '' he say . 

Drought aid assistance increase 
The New South Wales Government have announce far drought assistance for farmer and irrigators . 
The extra assistance will see drought aid increase to $ 30 million this financial year . 
Irrigators in the Lachlan Valley will be the big winner from the announcement , with their fixed water charge waive this season , save them around $ 5 million . 
The State Government have also extend it drought support worker program until June next year . 
The Premier have waive the wild dog destruction board fee for farmer in the western division and defer the pest insect levy for this financial year . 
NSW Premier Morris Iemma say they be also increase mental health service . 
`` There be a real human toll here . Extra stress , anxiety , indeed depression a farm family suffer a a result of lose their income , '' he say . 

NT cattle export to Malaysia almost double 
Almost twice a many cattle be be export from the Northern Territory to the Malaysian state of Sabah compare to last year . 
Almost 2,500 cattle have be send out of the port of Darwin this year and the trade be expect to keep grow . 
Stuart Kenny from the NT Cattlemen 's Association have be at the open a new Meat Technology Centre in Sabah , which he say will help to build the export business . 
`` We be presently about 30 kilometre north of the main city in Sabah , which have see a collaborative agreement between Sabah Government and also the NT Government , '' he say . 
`` What we be see today be a first class facility that can meet the technology and the quality of meat that can be see anywhere in Australia . 

Bull sell for record price 
The record price for an Australian stud bull have be double at a brahman bull sale near Rockhampton . 
A 20-month-old bull sell for $ 300,000 at the McCamley family ' Tartrus Lancefield sale . 
It be buy by Graham Kemp from the Happy Valley Brahman stud at Mackay . 
Spokesman Ken McCaffrey hop other son of the bull , JDH Baxter Manso , be a popular . 
`` They sell particularly well the son of Baxter 's through the sale but he be well credentialled in every way with pedigree and his group breed plan figure , '' Mr McCaffrey say . 

Labor hit out at pay rise for GRDC bos 
The Federal Government-funded Grains Research and Development Corporation ( GRDC ) be under fire , for award it manage director a $ 60,000 pay rise during the drought . 
The GRDC have admit to a Senate estimate hearing that manage director Peter Reading 's salary be increase to $ 460,000 this year , but say it be after a salary review by an independent body . 
Labor 's agriculture spokesman Gavan O'Connor say the Government should be ashamed . 
`` I think it 's important that some sensitivity in judgment be exercise when wage rise or salary rise of this kind be grant , '' he say . 

Grain grower urge not to accept low share offer 
The Victorian Farmers Federation ( VFF ) be warn grain grower not to accept low offer for their share in wheat exporter AWB . 
The Australian Share Purchasing Corporation be offer drought-hit farmer $ 1.50 for their B class share . 
Ian Hastings from the VFF be worry that grower do not realise their share be worth almost twice that amount . 

Grain harvest under way 
The grain harvest have commence in Victoria 's Mallee and some grain grower say they be surprise by yield . 
With less than 100 millimetre of rain during the grow season , farmer have be expect a small harvest . 
In the Millewa , in the state 's north-west , farmer Colin Hunt say some wheat crop be yield up to one tonne per hectare , a bit above expectation . 

Canola crusher look to import crop 
The canola crop have now all but fail this season in New South Wales . 
Canola crusher be currently look at import canola from Western Australia or Canada to meet the state 's domestic demand . 
Pete MacSmith from Macsmith Milling in the state 's central west say the local figure be not good . 
`` The late estimate be put the NSW crop at somewhere between 25 and 35,000 tonne , '' he say . 
`` There 's be a few reasonable crop up in the north . 
`` There will be very little harvest in the central west until we get down to the irrigation area . 

Drought impact on northern cattle price 
Cattle price in tropical northern Australia be feel the impact of the dry condition elsewhere . 
An oversupply of stock to the domestic market be drive down price across the nation and for the live export trade . 
Steve Ellison , of the Territory 's Live Exporters Association , say cattle price have ease by 10 to 15 cent for every kilogram sell . 
However he say there have be a big improvement in the buffalo export trade . 
`` I think price be a big factor , plus there be buffalo operator who be really well organise , they can get much big number on a regular basis and put them in yard and quieten them down prior to go on the ship , '' he say . 

Quarantined US beef release in Japan 
Customs official in Japan have finally release 910 tonne of US beef which have be in quarantine since January . 
The shipment be delay when Japan reimpose a ban on US import . 
Meat and Livestock Australia 's Glen Feist say the problem now be that the beef only have an eight week shelf life . 
`` The Japanese consumer be extremely discern when it come to quality and freshness of any meat , '' he say . 
`` If consumer sentiment obviously be down over there against US beef a food service operator might buy this product and not be able to push it through either . 

Sawmillers worry about long-term viability 
Tasmanian sawmillers be concern that a downturn in the wood chip market could undermine their long-term viability . 
Forestry Tasmania 's annual report have reveal a 24 per cent fall in wood chip sale , and a 9 per cent reduction in sawlogs . 
Fred Ralph from the Country Sawmillers Federation blame the drop in saw log sale to the slow down in the construction of new home . 
But he be concern that when the industry recovers , mill will not be able to sell their wood chip residue . 

SA and NSW govts reach water trading agreement 
The South Australian and New South Wales government have sign an agreement to allow cross-border trading of water entitlement from the Murray and Murrumbidgee Rivers . 
Earlier this year the Federal Government threaten to fine the two state $ 17 million if they do not reach an agreement by January . 
South Australian Minister for the River Murray Karlene Maywald be hopeful this deal will avoid any penalty . 
`` We 've come a long way since earlier this year in relation to the negotiation and the discussion , '' she say . 

Commission propose increase semi-trailer load 
Load limit for semi-trailers could be increase by five tonne under a draft proposal from the National Transport Commission . 
Trucks with twin-steer axle would be able to carry a maximum gross weight of 47.5 tonne . 
The commission say any additional damage to roads would be offset by high registration charge . 
Spokesman Paul Sullivan say the plan would result in productivity and safety gain for the logging , mining and construction industry . 
`` It originally come from request from industry in the logging , mining and construction industry that need to carry a little bit of extra mass , '' he say . 

Aboriginal land subdivide for farm 
In a first for the Northern Territory , Aboriginal land have be subdivide for horticulture development . 
It have take more than 10 year to develop the new lease due to a lack of funding . 
Five block of between 100 to 1,000 hectare at Ti-Tree , north of Alice Springs , will be lease to farmer for development . 
Allan Cooney from Centrefarm say the plan will increase the productivity of unimproved land , with plan to grow olive , mango , tablegrapes and bush tucker . 
`` We would expect there to be fruit plant here next year , albeit on a relatively small scale but within a couple of year we 'll see extensive planting in these area , '' he say . 
`` We 've get people that have be line up for year ready to go onto these site . 

Farm hop for canker-free future 
Orchardists at Emerald in central Queensland be in the final stage of prepare for what be be call the most complex tree plant operation in Australia 's history . 
A total of 193,000 citrus tree have to be destroy at 2PH farm after canker be discover in the region in 2004 . 
Under a replacement project 5,000 tree will be plant every day for four month . 
Manager Craig Pressler be hop for a canker-free future . 

Eco City Farm win invention of year award 
An urban food production system design to reduce carbon emission have win an invention of the year award in northern New South Wales . 
The Eco City Farm , which be on a standard house block , produce enough fish and vegetable to fee 300 family . 
The farm be design to cut the emission create by transport food from rural area to city consumer . 
Spokesman Andrew Bodlovich say it produce no effluent , recycle it own water and be economically viable even at current city land value . 
`` We really start out with the specific goal of achieve a triple bottom line with an agriculture system , so it really need to work for profit but we also want it to be very ecological and it have to work for people as well , '' he say . 

Muster slow cane toad ' progress 
More than 48,000 cane toad have be catch in the Timber Creek region of the Northern Territory . 
A month-long campaign have be run in an attempt to stop the poisonous pest cross the Western Australian border . 
Coordinator Graeme Sawyer originally expect to catch around 10,000 but he be hopeful the Great Toad Muster have slow the toad 's progress . 

Rebound in wool price expect to continue 
Wool price be tip to rise even far a competition for Australia 's drought-depleted wool stock grow between Europe and Asia . 
Wools in the medium 21 to 23 micron range be at a five year high after jump up to 44 cent a kilogram at yesterday 's sale . 
Over the past three week the benchmark eastern market indicator have rise to a two-year-high . 
Chief economist at Woolmark Chris Wilcos say the rebound should continue for at least another two month . 
`` We would expect to see a further rise of 10 to 15 per cent again , compare with what we 've already see in the last three week , '' he say . 

Mixed response to water buying scheme 
There have be a mixed response to the launch of the Federal Government 's first scheme to buy water from farmer for the environment . 
The Government be offer to buy water from irrigators in the Southern Murray Darling Basin that be save through on and off farm efficiency improvement . 
Some irrigators say it will offer farmer a new source of income . 
But Danny Lee from the Victorian Irrigators Council say with little irrigation water available , government should be spend more money on water save infrastructure . 
`` Right now we have a severe drought , nobody need to be tell that , farmer be on their knee , they be in a weakened state , '' he say . 

Complaint delay animal ID system audit 
There have be a six-week delay in an audit of Australia 's new electronic animal identification system . 
The audit be commission in July to investigate claim of inaccuracy and systemic error in the system 's database . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say an official complaint last month about the process have cause delay . 
Meanwhile one of Australia 's big cattle producer have be fin for fail to electronically ear-tag his cattle . 
Despite plead guilty , the central Queensland-based Laglan Pastoral Company have hit back at the prosecution , say ear-tags be not available . 
The company be charge with breach Queensland 's new national livestock identification law by truck cattle between company property without the ear-tags , which be design to trace animal from paddock to plate . 
Spokesman Charles Lund believe the $ 800 fine and conviction be unfair 
`` The meatworks will tell you over 30 year we 've never have a question come back from them and our cattlework and our paperwork 's be always spot on and they could n't find anything wrong with any of our paperwork or the traceability of our stock , '' he say . 
`` What annoy me the most , that we 've help the DPI , we 've help the police , we 've catch quite a lot of steal cattle and that , and we 're all for cattle be correctly designate , but if you ca n't get a product to put in them in the ear , you ca n't put it in the ear . '' 

Canadian GM canola may be in Aust by year 's end 
Genetically-modified ( GM ) canola from Canada could be import into Australia by the end of the year . 
It be one of 40 application to import grain and oilseed to address feed shortage . 
Peter Liehne from the Australian Quarantine Service have tell the Senate Estimates Agriculture Committee that if the canola application succeed , the oilseed will have to be crush near the port of entry . 
He say the applicant plan to make the remain meal into livestock feed . 

AWI court action cost woolgrowers 
The Federal Court have hear the Australian Wool Innovation 's legal action against the animal right group , People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ( PETA ) , have cost woolgrowers $ 5 million . 
The two-year-old case be a result of PETA 's campaign against mulesing . 
But at today 's hearing in Sydney , Justice Rares have ask how woolgrowers can claim indirect economic loss , when AWI have $ 100 million in the bank . 
The startling figure come out after PETA file a strike-out motion against the woolgrowers ' damage . 
Rod Smith SC tell Justice Rares AWI and it co-applicants have make a series of `` forensic u-turns '' . 
Mr Smith say he be intrigue to know how the 101 woolgrowers could prove they have suffer a loss of benefit in their levy when AWI have $ 100 million in it account last financial year . 
Mr Smith add the 2 per cent levy be a Commonwealth statutory figure determine in November 2003 before the court action begin . 
Mr Bannon SC for AWI and the woolgrowers argue the strike-out motion be a shemozzle , say if AWI have spend it legal fee in the PETA campaign on other thing woolgrowers would be in a good position today . 
Justice Rares order that AWI and the woolgrowers provide within seven day detailed particular of the loss . 

City resident rally around drought-stricken counterpart 
Charities say there be grow support from city people want to help rural Australia through the drought . 
Queensland-based Aussie Helpers say people and business from all along the east coast have offer free holiday accommodation , while some Brisbane resident have drive into outback Queensland to donate grocery . 
Beverly Kerr from St Vincent de Paul have start a rural task force to coordinate support in the ACT and New South Wales and say she only realise how bad it be when she visit rural Australia . 
`` When I be ask to form this task force I think what be I go to do , I do n't know anything about this drought , I live in Wollongong near the beach , '' she say . 
`` So I drive to Broken Hill for their 100th anniversary , instead of fly I drive . 
`` You can read it in the paper and you can think 'oh that 's really bad ' but actually see it and talk to people . 
`` I mean some people on those farm have be there for generation and generation , what do they do ? '' 
Meanwhile farm worker be urge their boss to be honest about the future of their job during the drought . 
Victorian dairy farm worker Nat Watson say employee who be keep in the dark can become anxious about their job security . 
`` They 're come home stress and it affect their family life because they do n't know if there be go to be on food on the table tomorrow , '' he say . 

Record October temp record in NSW 
New South Wales have record it hot , dry October on record , follow it hot and dry September . 
The consequence have be devastate for the rural sector , with crop failure and feed , and water shortage force a huge sell off of stock . 
Mike Logan from the Bureau of Meteorology have the bad news . 
`` Right across NSW temperature be just more than three degree above the historical average of 24.5 degree and the rainfall 's unbelievably low , '' he say . 
`` On average we only receive 6.6 mm compare to the state average for October of 48.9 . 

Price rise to help potato grower 
Tasmanian potato grower have receive their first price rise in six year . 
Processor McCain will pay grower $ 10 a tonne more for russet burbank variety and $ 6 a tonne extra for other variety . 
Grower representative Phillip Beswick say the rise will help farmer face a difficult season ahead . 
`` It 's pretty significant , the company have recognise the hardship grower be go to be in this year with the problem with water and acquire it , and the high cost that we 've have in the last 12 month , '' he say . 

Robotic system to hasten grape vine prune 
University student in Adelaide have a design a robotic system which can hand prune grape vine four time faster than a human . 
Although many grape be mechanically prune , premium variety still need some hand pruning . 
Through GPS and computer imaging , the software can be program to tell a machine with a mechanical arm , where and at what angle to make the cut . 
One of the designer , Damien Mavroudis , say it have the potential to save grower time and money . 

Harvesting short crop challenge grain grower 
Grain grower in Western Australia struggle with the dry season be now face with another challenge , harvest short crop . 
Glen Riethmuller from the Department of Agriculture say farmer in the reliable cropping area be not use to have such light crop . 
He say grower be experiment with different way to set up their harvester , so they can reduce loss . 
`` People have certainly be look at that knife and particularly change to the double density knife guard if they have n't already get them , '' he say . 

Rain dance invoke for drought relief 
In an effort to break the drought , a woman in South Australia who describe herself a an Aboriginal spiritual adviser , be plan to travel the country host rain dance . 
Inspired by a rain dance stag in the Victorian town of Ouyen in 2003 , Angelina Harradine say she will help to organise community ceremony . 
`` Myself and my team will travel all over Australia , '' she say . 
`` There be process that be use , those process be very sacred , they 're share with people with respect . 
`` I do n't sit down here and think this be all fun and game . 

Young Aboriginal actor seek for outback epic 
The search be continue for a young Aboriginal actor to star in a major outback motion picture . 
Director Baz Luhrmann 's sweeping romance and historical epic will star Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman . 
Filming on the yet unnamed film be due to begin early next year across Top End station country and he say time be run out to find the third character . 
`` Now what bring them together though be this child and there an Aboriginal boy between the age of eight and 10 , '' Luhrmann say . 
`` He 's a very , very primary character and in fact right at the moment , that 's my big focus . 
`` We be look all over Australia for this young Indigenous actor and we have see some great boy so far , so we have get great possibility . 

Frost hit apple crop 
A quarter of the apple crop in central western New South Wales have be lose , a a result of weekend frost . 
The cold snap hit the Orange region , damage apple , apricot and cherry . 
Batlow producer have also lose around 5 per cent of their crop . 
Orange district apple grower Adam Roweth say he lose about half his crop , when the temperature plummet to minus two . 
`` I think I have a problem in one of the block , '' he say . 
`` The fruit be n't see to be grow , but it be n't because it be n't grow , it be because it be frost . 
`` I have never see frost that way , in that condition and that bad in my time which be n't very old but I can assure you that I do n't think my father would have see it like that either . 

AWB cut wheat pool management cost 
Wheat exporter AWB have slash it cost for manage the national wheat pool this financial year . 
The company say it be an attempt to maximise return to grain grower during the drought and reduce administrative cost . 
The base fee AWB charge for manage the pool will be cut by 40 per cent to $ 39.5 million . 
Chairman of AWB International Ian Donges say the new business model will benefit grower . 
`` It mean the cost per tonne will come under $ 10 , provide we get four million tonne , '' he say . 
`` I think that 's a very good result give that in the last drought in 2002 that $ 10 per tonne be around about the base rate that grower pay as well . 

Govt considers drought aid for rural business 
The Deputy Prime Minister say the Federal Government be now consider extend drought assistance to farm-dependent business . 
Rural business say they have be hit just a hard by the drought and can not keep go without support . 
Mark Vaile say measure be be consider to try to keep young people on the land and to ensure business survive . 
`` Circumstances have be present to u where there be directly agricultural-related small business , like harvest contractor , spray contractor , that be be significantly affect in many EC [ exceptional circumstance ] area , '' he say . 

Fruit can company offer drought help to farmer 
Australia 's big fruit can company be offer extra drought assistance to grower to shore up supply for the summer . 
SPC Ardmona be offer supplier in Victoria 's Goulburn Valley a $ 1.7 million package . 
Managing director Nigel Garrard say the package include loan , access to water and extra payment for fruit . 
`` It 's three prong to it , firstly , be interest free loan to enable them to buy water because we recognise a number of them need some help with the funding of the water , '' he say . 
`` Secondly , be subsidy on fruit deliver to u and that 'll be for fruit and tomato . 

Patchy rainfall welcome across NSW 
Inland New South Wales have receive it most widespread rainfall in more than three month . 
Falls over the past 24 hour have be patchy , with 50 millimetre in the state 's north but nothing in some central and western district . 
But farmer in the central west say any rain be welcome . 
`` We have 26 millimetre in two storm . One yesterday afternoon and one sometime early this morning , '' one farmer say . 
`` Certainly some of our later paddock , which we be save for seed , it will help them . It wo n't help the yield but it will help the grain size . '' 
Another farmer say : `` Two storm , one yesterday afternoon , 24 millimetre in 15 minute and do n't it come down . '' 
`` Two storm , one yesterday afternoon with five millimetre and then another one about 4:00am ( AEDT ) , and we pick up 16 millimetre . A little bit of heavy stuff in it , '' a third farmer say . 
`` [ We get ] about half a millimetre , we ca n't measure anything under that , '' a fourth farmer say . 

Speed limit cap punish remote family : resident 
Remote resident in the Northern Territory be outrage at Government plan to cap open speed limit . 
By the end of next year , all traveller on the Stuart , Arnhem , Barkly and Victoria Highways will have to stick to a 130 kilometre an hour limit . 
All other road will have a 110 kilometre per hour cap . 
Jo Coulthard from Orange Creek Station , south of Alice Springs , say the change punish remote family . 
`` I do n't think it 's go to be upheld because how be they go to police it ? '' she say . 
`` We would have to take more time to do the travelling , which of course when you be work or live on a station you do n't have a lot of time to be do that sort of stuff . 
`` I think that 's go to have a huge impact on u . Instead of just be an overnight trip ... now it will have to be a couple of night . 

Scientist pessimistic about alternative fuel in Aust 
Australia 's chief scientist do not think alternative fuel have a big future in the country because of a shortage of available production land . 
Dr Jim Peacock make the comment ahead of the Australian Farm Institute 's strategic round table meeting on agriculture in Sydney today . 
The conference be examine how science will assist agriculture over the next decade , especially in the area of climate change , GM technology and strengthen international market . 
Dr Peacock say people must be realistic about the potential offer by the alternative energy source . 
`` There 's a lot of talk about agriculture and biofuels , I personally do n't think that 's go to be of very much significance in Australia , '' he say . 
`` It 's just a question of available land , production land . 
`` There 's no doubt that ethanol be useful a a blend et cetera , but they 'll be part of the portfolio . 

Country student fall behind in math , science 
Primary school principal say rural student be fall behind in math and science because of a shortage of teacher . 
The National Centre of Science and Maths say country pupils fall further behind city student , the further they live from a major city . 
Leonie Trimper from the Australian Primary Principals Association say rural school need specific funding to help them attract and keep specialist teacher . 

TV station operator push for rural channel 
The operator of a rural community television station say the Federal Government be ignore request for a new digital TV station dedicate to rural Australia . 
South Australian-based BushVision say in a national survey of 250 people , more than 90 per cent believe rural issue be not cover adequately by mainstream TV network and almost all support a dedicated rural channel . 
The Federal Government want digital technology to replace the current analogue network within six year . 
BushVision station manager Leon Ashby there be good reason for a rural channel . 
`` For many year , our information and our news have either be sensationalised and it put a picture of rural Australians always whingeing , always get a flood or a fire , or some catastrophe , '' he say . 
`` But it do n't give the overall picture that there 's a lot of good thing happen . 
`` We talk about good communication for the bush but television have be leave completely out of the picture . '' 

Tough decision face irrigators 
South Australia 's peak irrigators body say some farmer may not survive the late cut in water allocation . 
River Murray water entitlement have be cut from 70 to 60 per cent after another month of record low inflow across the Murray Darling Basin . 
Ian Zadow from SA Murray Irrigators say some will have to make tough decision in the coming week . 
`` I 'm sure that this be go to create real problem for a lot of irrigators , '' he say . 

Anthrax season start early 
New South Wales have have an early start to the anthrax season , with two property already suffer stock loss . 
The state normally see about four case of stock loss from anthrax each year . 
Catherine Taragel from the Department of Primary Industries say , `` we have have an early start to the summer period and we have start to see anthrax case , '' she say . 

Dry force cattle sell-off 
One of the big cattle station in the world have be force to sell 12,000 head a the dry continue . 
Anna Creek Station in South Australia 's far north have reduce it stock level from 16,000 head to 4,000 since late last year . 
Manager Randall Crozier say most of the cattle have be sell or send to feedlot . 
`` We 've be destocking pretty well since November last year and we 're pretty well in full swing now we 're down , '' he say . 
`` We 're down to approximately less than a quarter of our stock rate at the moment and if it do n't rain soon , there 'll be even less than that . 

Soybean producer buoy by high price 
Higher price have lead soybean producer on the New South Wales north coast to plan their big crop planting in year . 
Growers be be offer an opening price of $ 380 a tonne for bean for the crush market . 
Buyers agent Kerry Handford say the drought have play a part in the price jump , but it be mainly due to grow interest in biofuels . 
`` I think that 's start to put a bit of a surge in everything , '' he say . 
`` They can use the oil in a biodiesel situation because the soybean produce 20 per cent of it mass in oil . 
`` And also our food chain be get away from solid fat into oil to do their cooking for health reason . 

Deadline for Wool Poll vote 
Today be the last chance for wool grower to vote on the level of their industry levy . 
Wool Poll be run every three year to determine funding level for research and development , marketing and grower service . 
Growers currently pay a levy of 2 per cent of the value of their wool sale , value at around $ 60 million . 

Rain trigger croc breed season 
Good rain in central Queensland this week have trigger the start of the croc breeding season . 
Koorana Crocodile Farms ' John Lever say storm have bring fall of more than 200 millimetre , which have ignite passion in his reptile 
He say it be the early egg lay they have ever have . 
`` We be quite amaze that there be a bit of hanky panky go on there but no great surge of sexual desire , '' he say . 
`` But we get a good spread of rain over about three day and that really get them go then . 

Cattle price recover 
Cattle price have make a slight recovery a supply tightens across the country . 
But there be a big discrepancy between livestock yardings and the number of both cattle and sheep be slaughter at abattoir . 
Peter Weeks from Meat and Livestock Australia say many buyer who have enjoy good patchy rain be still buy stock or choose to grain feed . 
`` We 're see yardings about 30 per cent up year on year both for cattle and for lamb at the moment , '' he say . 
`` And yet the slaughter side only up about 5 per cent for both . 

Rain boost cotton plant area 
More cotton will be plant in south-east Queensland after some of the best rain all year . 
A band of rain and isolated thunderstorm cross the region over the weekend with 102 millimetre record at Warwick , 64 at Kingaroy and 51 at Warra . 
While some of the state 's most drought-affected area miss out , Darling Downs cotton grower Ian Speed say he can now double his crop planting . 
`` We 'll be able to plant some dryland cotton now , we 'd only have about a hundred hectare of cotton that we 'd pre-watered and now we 'll put in probably another 200 hectare of cotton , '' he say . 

Rain expect to boost locust number 
Farmers in Western Australia 's wheatbelt receive significant rainfall from thunderstorm at the weekend but it be create problem for grower try to harvest crop . 
Falls of between 15 and 20 millimetre be record on average but there be now concern the rain will cause an increase in locust number . 
Entomologist Kevin Walden say the rain will give the current locust plague a boost . 
`` The adult locust will survive well now , '' he say . 
`` They 'll move probably large distance than they normally would if they do n't have any rainfall and there definitely be the possibility of an air glade . 

Uranium exploration company boom 
Australian uranium exploration company be boom due to the increase international focus on clean energy production . 
Recent float have be heavily over-subscribed and have close early , while many stock be double their issue price in a single day of trading . 
Investment manager with broking house ASANDAS Mark Niutta believe public attitude to uranium mining be change . 

WA potato grower urge to pull their spud early 
Potato grower in Western Australia be be ask to pull their spud before they have reach full yield production due to loom shortage . 
A lack of processing potato in the eastern state due to drought and frost earlier in this year have lead to a surge in demand . 
President of the WA Vegetable Growers Association Jim Turley say because grower have be ask to harvest early , they should be pay more . 
`` It be tight all round Australia . The grower be under pressure with their cost go up all the time , '' he say . 

Aerial contractor look to cut cost 
The drought be expect to cut rice production in southern New South Wales by 80 per cent to 200,000 tonne . 
The crop be normally be sow by plane at this time of the year but aerial contractor be report a big downturn in business . 
Phil Sefton from Field Air at Deniliquin have not employ casual staff this season and be look at other way to cut cost . 
`` There 's not many business out there that could say if they lose 95 per cent of their work they 'd be in a very financial position , '' he say . 

Stud breeder seek govt assistance 
Stud breeder in the cattle industry say they be worried about the loss of valuable genetics , unless they receive drought assistance . 
Many do not qualify for Federal Government support because of high off-farm income . 
The industry say most of that income be be use to support stud property during the drought . 
Central Victorian murray grey breeder Marilyn Pell say she be go into serious debt but do n't want to have to sell cow to abattoir . 
`` I 've pay up to $ 2,500 just for one cow because she be a well breed cow with her genetics , '' she say . 
`` If I be to send her in now to get her head cut off you know I 'd be lucky to get $ 400 . 

Govt play catch-up on water policy , say Labor 
Labor have attack the Federal Government for not do enough to prepare the country for drought . 
The Prime Minister will hold a water crisis meeting with four state government tomorrow to look at critical storage level in the Murray Darling River system and the implication for irrigators . 
The Murray Darling Basin receive just 3.2 millimetre of rain last month , the low rainfall since record begin . 
Opposition agriculture and fishery spokesman Gavan O'Connor say the Coalition be play catch-up on policy . 
`` Labor propose a summit on climate change and water some two year ago and that suggestion be meet with derision by the Government , '' he say . 
`` Now with the Murray Darling Basin in a state of stress , system not have enough water to meet farmer need and some farmer allocation down to 30 per cent some not at all , the Government have decide to act . It 's simply not good enough . '' 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGuaran say the current dry condition be no-one 's fault and step have be take to manage low water level . 
Irrigators from the Murray Darling Basin say environmental flow should be use to boost city water shortage . 
The lobby group , Irrigators Australia Limited , have put forward a five point plan to the Federal Government look at how to deal with the water crisis . 
Chairman Barry Croke say government should reduce water flow for the environment , instead of buy water off farmer . 
`` Irrigators ' water be need to fee people and we think that 's very , very important but urban use when it start compete with irrigation water in this time of real scarcity , it 's create an enormous problem to produce food , '' he say . 
`` So environmental water be there and normally the gum tree would n't be get environmental water in this situation and we just believe urbans ought to be supplement by environmental water . '' 

Pumping water 
Calls to pump water from northern Australia to the south have receive support from a US scientist , who say similar project have solve water shortage there . 
Professor Scott Bassett from the Desert Research Institute in Nevada say water in river and underground basin be worth big money . 
He say in the US water be be pip from farm area to city because population growth be outstrip water supply . 
`` Water move uphill and it move uphill to money . Big city will pay for their water supply in such a way a $ 3 billion canal from Phoenix to the Colorado River so they 'll ship the water from the Colorado River to city like Phoenix which have the base to supply the economic drive to get the water up there , '' he say . 
But former Californian farmer Spike Dessert , who now live in the Kimberley , say the distance water be pip in the US do not compare with Australia . 
He say some pumping scheme be just 300 kilometre long , nothing compare to the thousand of kilometre of pipeline that would be need here . 

Expert want dingo control relax 
There have be a call to relax control on dingo and even reintroduce them in some part of Australia . 
In a new book , Professor Chris Johnson of James Cook University say it be important to conserve the pure-bred dingo . 
He say he understand the damage wild dog cause to livestock but argue the dingo be a natural predator of other ferals . 

Sponge cake cook-off whip up competition 
The men of north-west Tasmania have prove a dab hand in the kitchen , whip up frenzied competition at a weekend sponge cake cook-off . 
Fourteen cook line up for the men-only competition at the Ulverstone Show on Saturday . 
Entrant Barry Smith say he have a novel way of make sure there be enough air in his cake mixture . 

High rabbit number worry grazier 
Graziers be concern that high rabbit number will hinder the recovery of pastoral country after the drought . 
David Lord of Thackaringa station near Broken Hill say he be concern that the calicivirus be lose it impact in control rabbit population . 
Mr Lord be call for a complete stocktake of what be go on with rabbit and control method . 
`` General talk around the bush [ be ] that rabbit number increase over the last six month , '' he say . 
`` Definitely need some finance to support a scientific team to get a good handle on RHD so we know whether any resistance be develop . 

Rural Aust fairly protect from interest rate rise : NAB 
Rural Australia be expect to ride out any further interest rate rise well than most . 
The National Australia Bank ( NAB ) say many farmer have lock their loan into fix rate to guard against a rise . 
It be widely tip the Reserve Bank will announce an increase of a quarter of a per cent tomorrow . 
The NAB 's general manager of agribusiness , Wayne Carlson , say the farm sector be manage it financial commitment much well . 
`` Of our agricultural loan book there be something in excess of 70 per cent of that manage on fixed rate or cap rate , or with interest rate risk management tool if you like apply to assist , '' he say . 

WA export hold yard breach standard : RSPCA 
The RSPCA say most live export hold yard in Western Australia breach new national quarantine standard . 
The animal welfare body be investigate what it say be a lack of shelter at one of the state 's big port at Wyndham . 
It say cattle , goat and pig be force to stand in temperature of more than 40 degree for up to three day without shade . 
Since the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) standard be not enforceable , the RSPCA want the owner of the yard , the Ord River District Co-operative , to provide shelter . 
But spokesman Jim Hughes say that be unlikely to happen . 
Mr Hughes say the facility be not part of their core business and they do not receive enough rent to warrant upgrade the 80-year-old yard . 
`` What we get for those cattle yard be no more than a donation , '' he say . 
`` In those circumstance why on earth would we want to spend a lot of money on facility at the yard ? '' 
The new AQIS export standard state register premise must provide animal with protection from extreme climatic condition . 
But RSPCA prosecutor Robin Moore say he be tell the standard be not enforceable . 

Japan pressure to lift age limit on beef import 
The US Government be pressure Japan to lift it age limit on beef import . 
Japan have agree to accept beef from animal under the age of 20 month in the wake of the outbreak of mad cow disease in the US in 2003 . 
But US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns say the 20 month limit be too restrictive and not the international standard . 

Uranium price expect to rise 
The price of uranium continue to climb steadily , with prediction it could hit $ US100 a pound by next year . 
It be currently sit at $ US60 , up from just $ US10 five year ago . 
ANZ Bank commodity analyst Andrew Harrington do not think the price will go quite so high but say demand be far outstripping supply . 
He say there be 50 nuclear power reactor be plan around the world and the supply of uranium from old nuclear weapon be dry up . 
`` Nuclear weapon , the linchpin in supply for a long time but recycle nuclear bomb be few and few between in the old Soviet Union and the United States , '' he say . 

Dairy co-op lift milk price 
A dairy co-operative on the north coast of New South Wales be lift milk price to help farmer pay high cost for grain to fee their cow . 
The Norco Dairy Co-op will pay producer just over four cent a litre extra from January . 
Chairman Greg McNamara say there be likely to be a major shortage of milk by autumn if farmer be not give support to maintain their herd . 
`` We 're extremely concerned about the cost impact of grain on farmer and how that 's actually see ( a ) farmer actually leave and ( b ) the current farming supply leave be use less grain and get less milk , '' he say . 

Irrigators await summit decision on Murray Darling 
The Federal Government say it will decide in the next few week what action will be take to help the ail Murray Darling Basin . 
It have be meet with four state government this morning to thrash out way to salvage river system . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say if there be a repeat of this year 's dry condition there will be an extreme water crisis across the basin . 
But he say the government have not yet decide whether they will compulsorily buy back water right from irrigators to shore up town water supply . 
`` Those be the hard decision that we will prepare for next year , '' he say . 
`` We still hope obviously the drought will break but if it do n't then there be go to be difficult decision and people need to be reassure that all government be work together on this . 
`` We 're go to take action on contingency planning , we 'll commission a survey of town and city ' water supply situation , what option be available to u . '' 
The National Farmers Federation say rural town should be make a priority when it come to water distribution . 
But chief executive Ben Fargher be worry the decision-makers will not take into consideration the huge investment irrigators make in their water allocation . 
`` We do want a process set up to make sure that we can protect our core breeding stock , which be our productive base , '' he say . 
`` How do we protect those permanent planting , those crop like orchard and other planting that take a long-long time to establish . '' 
Meanwhile irrigators in southern New South Wales be anxiously wait to hear if there will be further cut to their current water allocation . 
The New South Wales Department of Natural Resources have suspend trade in the Murray and Murrumbidgee valley to assess how much water there be for irrigators . 
The department 's David Harriss say the review have be prompt by record low inflow into storage in the Snowy Mountains . 
`` That give Snowy Hydro the capacity to reduce what they call the required release into the Murray and Murrumbidgee valley , '' he say . 

NT fruit grower bemoan lose Cup sale 
Northern Territory fruit grower be hop to have good luck on the horse today after miss out on lucrative sale for the Cup carnival . 
The star fruit , also know a carambola , command up to $ 60 a tray at this time of year . 
That be more than double the price receive outside of the racing calendar . 
Darwin grower like Cheryl be hop to get the crop back on track for Christmas . 
`` It 's use a lot in garnish and in salad , '' she say . 
`` We have a problem earlier on in the year with late rain , early cool temperature and it just delay everything - we be about three week late with the season for this time of year . 

Tas company build vineyard bio-protection mould 
A Tasmanian company be develop a biological fungicide to control grey mould in vineyard . 
Biocontrol Australia have win a Federal Government grant to commercialise the fungicide . 
Dr Dean Metcalf say field trial have reduce the amount of grape lose to the disease by 80 per cent . 
He say the biological fungicide work with the help of a micro-organism that be native to Tasmania . 

Good rain benefit Kangaroo Is beekeeper 
Beekeepers on South Australia 's Kangaroo Island be have one of the best honey season they have experience in year . 
Local apiarist Peter Davis say the large volume of honey be the result of good rain in autumn and early winter which help set the flower bud . 
He also say the dry mild winter keep the bee healthy and active . 

Muswellbrook race cancel because of heavy track 
Racegoers in the heart of thoroughbred breeding industry , the Hunter Valley of New South Wales , do not know whether to laugh or cry today . 
Despite be drought-stricken , the local track be soak by rain earlier this week , cause the traditional cup day race meeting to be cancel . 
It be normally the big event of the year . 
The Muswellbrook Races be as well know to the race industry a the Melbourne Cup and attract some of the best race horse from across New South Wales . 
Conditions be so dry in September and October however , that the club fertilise and water the track to soften it up but recent heavy fall have now make it too heavy for race . 

Drought hit horse racing stud 
Horse race stud in Victoria say they be be hard hit by the drought . 
A lack of spring rain have mean stud owner be buy in feed early this year instead of usually hold off until summer . 
Fiona Smith from Nagambie , in central Victoria , say stud be be force to pass the cost on to customer . 
`` We 've have an increase in feed , feed price be astronomical at the moment and be affect u quite badly in regard to the cost of everything , '' she say . 
`` Unfortunately we 've have to increase a drought levy fee onto our agistment so therefore owner be incur extra cost . '' 
Meanwhile country race club in New South Wales be concern about their future viability . 
Orange-based trainer Brian Cornish say low prizemoney , increase feed cost and high fuel price be hurt . 
`` We 're try to get more money here . Everyone be work hard to try and get it for u , '' he say . 
`` That be the only way we will survive on the cost of living here today and training horse . 
`` The expense of it be get astronomical now . The thing of it be they want all the money to go to Sydney . That 's where they want the money for them down there , they 're not worry about u very much here . 

Calicivirus have an impact around Alice 
Research be show that a re-release of the rabbit kill calicivirus be have an effect near Alice Springs . 
Rabbit number have increase dramatically in recent year , amid fear the disease be lose it effectiveness . 
Kym Schwartzkopff from Parks and Wildlife say a number of rabbit have die since the re-release , but the disease have not spread as far a hop . 
`` The main stop of the spread be usually cause through weather , it do seem to work a lot well within a mild climate where it 's a lot cooler and a bit more humidity around and a bit more moisture around and the high temperature that we have in the centre of Australia and also through the desert region make it go dormant . 

Giant Qld dam fall to record low 
One of Queensland 's large dam have now fall to it low level yet . 
Fairbairn Dam at Emerald supply 200,000 megalitres of water each year for irrigation , industrial and urban need . 
When full the dam hold 1.3 million megalitres , but today it be at just 14 per cent of capacity . 
Nev Wogand from Sunwater say it would take an exceptional wet season to fill the dam . 

Drought prompt call for seed law change 
A South Australian farmer want the rule on Plant Breeders Rights ( PBR ) to be relax , so grower can donate seed to struggle colleague . 
New grain variety be subject to the rule , which prohibit grower from sell or even give away the seed . 
Chris Lawrie from Tumby Bay say the seed company should waive the ban this year , give the magnitude of the drought . 
`` Why ca n't they come out publicly and say well okay , if we either give or sell seed to somebody that we notify them of the amount of tonne we 've sell , who we 've sell it to , then they 've get a record of it all , '' he say . 

Grain-fed cattle number down 
The number of grain-fed cattle in Australia fell by nearly 60,000 head in the last quarter , due to skyrocket grain price and the worsening drought . 
Figures from the Australian Lot Feeders Associations show a drop in total number from 940,000 to just over 880,000 , with the big drop in Queensland . 
Association president Malcolm Foster say South Australia be the only state to buck the trend , with number jump 10,000 to 27,000 . 
`` There 's a lot of cattle that have come out of feedlot that have go to profitable market . Not all of them have be replace , '' he say . 
`` If feedlot ca n't make the sum work between the price they can get for the cattle when they 're turn off , and the price they 've get to pay for the cattle come in with the current grain price , then they 'll just slow up their purchase of cattle and so you 'll see reduced demand and the ultimate outcome of that be fall cattle price . '' 
Meanwhile , Tasmania 's only feedlot be look to import two third of it grain this year due to the poor grow season . 
The Powranna feedlot usually buy more than 20,000 tonne of grain from Tasmanian grower , but after frost and a dry season less than half that amount be available . 
Managing director Andrew Thompson say the company be look to the mainland to make up the shortfall . 

Supply shortage felt in pig meat industry 
Competition between pig meat processor be heat up in the lead up to Christmas because of supply shortage . 
As a result the market have rise to record high this week , with liveweight price as high a $ 3.20 per kilogram . 
Greg Richter from Primo Meats at Port Wakefield , in South Australia , say the shortage have be cause by hot condition last summer . 
`` There 's be a bit of a general infertility problem that happen earlier in the year and that 's just start to come through now , it always show up about nine month after they have the problem , '' he say . 

US wheat industry face export problem 
Despite a boost from Australia 's drought , the US wheat industry be face widespread export problem due to quality and disease issue . 
India be buy wheat again for the first time in seven year , but mostly from Australia and the Black Sea region , not the US . 
`` It 's because their phytosanitary requirement just ca n't be meet . It just create an impossible barrier to trade , '' say US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns , 
USDA be work with US Wheat Associaties to reduce these barrier . 
But the group 's Rebecca Coleman say quality and disease issue be `` crop up '' elsewhere . 
`` We 're have trouble in the EU , we 're have trouble in Japan , I 'm sure we 're go to have trouble in Korea . We 're have trouble right now in Kenya , '' she say . 
Ms Coleman say sanitary barrier be now threaten to become more of a problem for US wheat in some place than tariff . 
Meanwhile , the Grains Council of Australia say a national survey of grain quality show it be almost 100 per cent clean . 
The National Residue Survey of Australian grain , a joint government and industry project , reveal that 99.9 per cent of grain for export comply with Australian Food Standards . 

Funding shortage kill weed research centre 
The Co-operative Research Centre for Weeds will close by 2008 , after fail to win further Federal Government funding . 
The national research and development body have seek an additional $ 30 million funding over seven year , but fail to meet three out of the four necessary criterion . 
Chief executive Rachel Mcfadyen say it be a disastrous result because climate change will bring on fresh weed invasion . 
`` Some of the northern weed will move south , a the temperature heat up so in particular for example prickly acacia , mesquite in the grazing land will extend their range southward to western New South Wales and possibly even in Western Australia , '' she say . 
`` Things like lantana along the coast will extend it range southward and we do offer advice a to how best manage those weed and how to limit their spread . '' 

New smut fear in Qld 
Tests be underway to confirm whether the disease sugar cane smut have escape from a quarantine zone in Queensland . 
The State Government be expect to announce today that scientist be test what 's be call `` suspicious substance '' , a smut inspection team survey 600 farm around Mackay . 
Smut be first find near Bundaberg in June , and authorites have think it be contain . 
The Canegrowers Organisation be refuse to confirm that the disease have escape quarantine , but have confirm testing be underway . 

Mixed reaction to drought aid 
There have be a mixed reaction to the Federal Government 's announcement of drought aid for small business reliant on the farm sector . 
Businesses which receive 70 per cent of their income from farm in drought-declared area will be eligible for income support and interest rate subsidy . 
The Australian Grain Harvest Association say it will help contractor struggle to make repayment on machinery . 
But spokesman Rob Gribble be now urge the government to help contractor prepare for future drought , by set up a version of the Farm Management Deposit ( FMD ) scheme . 
`` In the long term what we request from the Federal Government be some sort of FMD facility so we can deposit money in good time and draw them out in bad and hopefully self manage our way through these thing , '' he say . 
Farm machinery dealer say they have be unfairly exclude from the new drought assistance package . 
Vin Delahunty from the Tractor and Machinery Association say most dealer will not be eligible for aid , because they employ more than 20 people . 
`` Once again the significant employer in the regional area , the people who employ the most significant number of skill in those community , have be leave out and to be honest , we do n't understand why the Government have take this action . '' 
Irrigators say they be skeptical of plan to speed up interstate water trading to address critical water shortage in drought-hit state . 
The federal and state government have agree that interstate buying and selling of permanent water right will begin on January 1 . 
But George Warne from Australia 's big irrigation company , Murray Irrigation , say there be little water available to ease shortage , because farmer allocation be so low . 
`` I think it be good they get together , but I 'm a a bit of a loss to understand how permanent water trading be go to help the drought , '' he say . 

New family day care system help outback NT family 
Outback family in the Northern Territory be take advantage of a new system of family day care . 
The Federal Government lift the cap on family day care position earlier this year . 
It have result in more opportunity for approved carers , and parent can claim a child care benefit . 
In the Douglas Daly , south-west of Darwin , mother like Sarah , say it be become easy to juggle the farm and small child . 
`` We do claim the CCB ( Child Care Benefit ) , which be a fantastic help , '' she say . 

CCC investigate further misconduct 
Western Australia 's Corruption and Crime Commission ( CCC ) have reveal it have further evidence of serious misconduct and abuse of power by public officer . 
The revelation follow yesterday 's startling evidence at the CCC of secretly record phone conversation between the former minister Norm Marlborough and the former premier Brian Burke . 
The CCC inquiry be originally set up to investigate the handling of a proposal to build a tourist resort at Smiths Beach , near Yallingup . 
But the uncovering of secret phone conversation between Mr Marlborough and Mr Burke have now change the nature and course of the inquiry . 
Yesterday CCC lawyer Stephen Hall SC reveal the commission have for some time be undertake broad investigation . 
He say the investigation support the proposition that serious misconduct by public officer have , may have , or be occur . 
Mr Hall say the investigation have be give the high priority because of the need to protect the integrity of government in Western Australia . 

AWB 's wheat export decision 'disgraceful ' 
There have be an angry reaction to AWB 's decision to block 12 application to export more than 3 million tonne of wheat . 
The application be by several company look to export to eight country but AWB have use it veto power under the Wheat Marketing Act to prevent the move . 
Chairman of AWB International Ian Donges say the decision will protect the financial interest of wheat grower deliver grain to the National Pool . 
`` Quite clearly , if we be to accept the permit that total 3 million tonne this year we would be derelict in our duty , '' he say . 
`` We be now look at a potential harvest or a pool delivery of 4 million tonne so it 's very important to maximise those pool return that we have every tonne available to service the international market place . '' 
But WA-based grain handler CBH have describe AWB 's decision a disgraceful . 
The co-operative want to export wheat to it South-East Asian flour mill . 
It be the second time CBH have be knock back and chief executive Imre Mencshely say AWB have again jeopardise the future of grower in the west . 
`` We can not understand how an organisation can hide behind legislation to make a decision of this nature , '' he say . 
`` We 've come out and we 've say that we can do this on a regular basis and we 've say we 'll be out there for five year . 
`` To deny the grower of Western Australian $ 40 million to $ 50 million in a year of drought , we just can not comprehend an organisation come out in that way . '' 
The Federal Government say it will not be pressure into change the single desk wheat export system before the outcome of the oil-for-food inquiry . 
Some Coalition MPs be call for AWB 's veto power to be remove but Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say that will not happen yet . 
`` AWB and other bulk handler and other interested party all know that , '' he say . 

Transport sector call for good infrastructure 
The trucking industry say new law to reduce driver fatigue must be accompany by major government spending on road . 
The National Transport Commission have release the final version of it plan to reduce driving hour and increase penalty in a bid to improve safety . 
While many concern with the commission 's initial recommendation have be address , the transport sector say good infrastructure be need . 
Stuart St Clair from the Australian Trucking Association say driver can not meet new rest break requirement unless 21,000 new rest area be build . 
`` It 's very difficult to put an onus on the trucking industry and it driver to perform to the necessary regulation , that 's one thing and we accept that responsibility , '' he say . 

Democrats ' victory make trade deal harder : consultant 
With the Democrats sweep back into power in the US Congress , the Bush administration face a major challenge to it power to broker trade deal next year . 
The Congress , even in Republican hand , have pass recent trade deal by the narrow of margin . 
Now , with Democrats in charge , Democratic trade consultant and former US Agriculture Department trade adviser Paul Drazek see little hope for renew the President 's power to make trade deal , expire next July . 
`` I think the change of his get that approval be pretty remote now . I mean , why would the Democrats in the House want to give the President a victory on a trade issue ... effectively , 18 month before the next election , '' Mr Drazek say . 

Grain harvester hit out at farmer ' pay rate 
Grain harvester say some farmer be take advantage of the drought condition to reduce their pay . 
The Australian Grain Harvesters Association say some large corporate farm in Queensland have drop their pay rate from $ 14 dollar an acre to $ 10 dollar . 
President Peter Bradley say despite contractor be desperate for work , there be no justification for pay less because of poor quality crop . 
`` The quality of the grain , whether it be good , bad or indifferent this year , be that there 's so little grain around that the price of the grain have rise to double what they be get last year and sometimes triple nearly , '' he say . 

Federation wo n't bend seed rule 
The Australian Seeds Federation say it be not willing to bend the rule to allow farmer to donate seed to other grower this year . 
The South Australian Farmers Federation say plant breeder right that prevent certain seed variety be trade or give away should be relax during the drought . 
But the seed federation 's Christopher Melham say any change would stop seed company invest in new variety . 

Fruit grower halve water time 
Victoria 's fruit grower be cut their watering time by half to ensure water supply will last the season . 
Extreme water shortage , particularly in the Goulburn Valley , mean orchardists have have to find way to stretch their irrigation water . 
Senior horticultural adviser Henry Schneider say new water technique for stonefruit be prove successful . 
`` Peaches respond very well to regulate deficit irrigation ( RDI ) it 's a matter of just irrigate those peach a you would on the normal interval , say once a week but cut the irrigation time in half , '' he say . 

Apricot orchard record bumper harvest 
An apricot orchard in far western New South Wales have bounce back from have it low record yield last year to a bumper harvest this season . 
The Tandou company say it can not plant cotton near Menindee this year because water allocation be too low . 
But spokesman Vince Trotter say the big result in Tandou 's orchard will influence the company 's future . 

Glider collect soil , climate change information 
A glider be fly over southern New South Wales this week be collect information for an international project to understand soil moisture and climate change . 
The European Space Agency be launch a satellite next year to measure soil moisture from space and Australian researcher be develop model to interpret the data . 
The data collect by the glider will make the model more accurate . 
The University of Melbourne 's Dr Jeff Walker say the aim be to provide farmer and government with good information . 

Wool grower want mulesing trial money redirect 
Wool grower be be urge to start breed so-called bare-bum sheep now to stave off future controversy over surgical mulesing . 
The industry have vow to phase out mulesing by 2010 to placate animal welfare group . 
Dubbo grazier Don Mudford be already breed sheep that do not need mulesing and believe the industry should be spend more money on marketing , instead of search for mulesing alternative . 
`` Because the day will come whether it 's in three year or not , the day will come when they wo n't be able to mule but to stop mulesing the whole flock will take a few year , '' he say . 

Govt urge to dump GST on school boarder ' food 
There be a call today for the Federal Government to dump the GST on food for board school student to bring down cost for struggle country family . 
Gary Le Duff from the Association of Independent Schools in South Australia say rural family which send their child to board school should be entitle to financial assistance . 
He say the current application of GST for school be different to other institution . 
`` There be an anomaly where board food be actually charge GST but if you 're in a hostel or stay a hospital there 's no GST , '' he say . 

Drought take toll on small native mammal 
The dry in central Australia have take it toll on small native mammal in the West MacDonnell Ranges near Alice Springs . 
An annual survey have find no central rock rat and no desert or native mouse . 
Glen Edwards from Parks and Wildlife say while the result be the bad in more than a decade , he be hopeful the specie will re-populate . 

Top South Korean chefs tour Australia 
Imagination and talent have pay off for five of South Korea 's top young chef , who be tour Australia after win a major culinary competition . 
The chef win the trip at the Korean equivalent of the Iron Chef competition , Meat and Livestock Australia 's Black Box Culinary Challenge . 
Fourteen team have an hour to produce a four course meal from ingredient include Australian beef and lamb . 
Interpreter Jinny Kim say the competition be fierce . 

Wool grower seek Wool Poll audit 
A group of wool grower have lodge a complaint against Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) , accuse it of fail to conduct this year 's Wool Poll transparently . 
The five grower from WA and New South Wales , want to know why 50,000 voting pack be send out , when there be only 30,000 eligible voter . 
The grower have call on the Australian Securities and Investments Commission to make sure AWI employee do not count or tabulate the vote and be seek an immediate post-vote audit . 
Signatory Shane Edwards who be an unsuccessful candidate for the AWI board in 2005 , say he have real concern 
`` There 's a number of people that have contact me and opinion around [ be ] that we 're not too sure whether that satisfy true and democratic process , '' he say . 
`` So we feel it 's important to keep ask these question because the question be this , what have AWI get to hide by deny this democratic process ? '' 
But AWI say this group of grower continue to try to destabilise the Wool Poll , which it say be transparent in every way . 

Japan worry about milk supply during drought 
Research and development organisation Dairy Australia say milk may have to be redirect from new overseas market to maintain supply to Japan . 
Managing director Mike Ginnivan have just return from the country , where he meet buyer worry about the drought 's impact on the supply of Australian milk . 
Japan receive 20 per cent of Australia 's dairy export and be see a one of our strong buyer . 
Mr Ginnivan say other Asian market may have to be sacrifice . 
`` China be a very difficult market - it 's a short term market , '' he say . 

Fishing industry disappoint by orange roughy decision 
Tasmania 's fishing industry be disappoint by a decision to list the orange roughy a endanger . 
It be the first commercially caught specie to be list . 
The fishing industry have be prepare for their catch quota to be slash to allow stock level to recover but be not expect a complete ban . 
Neil Stump from the Tasmanian Fishing Industry Council say the decision make the future of the fishery uncertain . 
`` I only hear about it yesterday so I have n't have the opportunity to evaluate the potential ramification but I think it 's the unknown , what do this actually mean for u ? '' he say . 
The Federal Government have move to establish a national standard for biodiesel . 
Environment Minister Ian Campbell plan to have a quality standard for blended fuel within month . 
John Keniry from the Australian Biodiesel Group say the standard be need to give consumer confidence that biodiesel will not damage engine . 
But he say more government incentive be need as well . 
`` In the US for example , there 's a blender 's credit and in Europe , in effect , a lot of the country mandate that diesel [ say it ] have to contain a certain amount of biodiesel , '' he say . 

Wool market close the week low 
After it recent strong run , the wool market have suffer a slight correction , finish the week almost 2.5 per cent lower . 
The eastern market indicator fell 19 cent to 825 cent a kilogram . 
Analysts say the fall suggest that price have rise too fast in recent week a buyer become nervous about future wool supply due to the drought . 
There be still strong competition from Italian and Chinese buyer at the Newcastle sale , especially for broad micron . 
But Craig Brennan from Elders say it could be tough next week , with many producer try to make the most of the high price . 
`` Due to the large rise last week the Sydney sale have blow out , originally it be 28,000 , it 's now increase to 32,000 bale for the week so obviously grower that withhold stock have flood the market , '' he say . 
`` I 'd be very surprised if the market hold it ground next week with such a considerable offering . 

Livestock price lower in WA 
A new report in Western Australia have show significant difference in livestock price between the eastern state and the west . 
The Department of Agriculture report say saleyard price for all stock class except porker be well below those on the eastern seaboard . 
Trade steer price be 14 per cent low and export lamb 16 per cent lower between March 2003 and September this year . 
Tim D'arcy from the Pastoralists and Graziers Association say it be a dramatic difference . 
`` It probably average 50 cent a kilo year in and year out , but it vary anywhere between about 20 or 30 cent up to $ 1.28 a kilo and we 're always that far behind , '' he say . 

Greens hit out at Senate inquiry rejection 
The Greens be angry at the rejection of a propose Senate inquiry into the future impact of climate change on rural community . 
The party lodge a motion in the Senate call for an investigation into what research be be do to manage low rainfall on farm . 
The motion be defeat 33 vote to 31 . 
Greens Senator Rachel Siewert say CSIRO and ABARE have tell the Senate that no Federal Government agency be work on a comprehensive strategy . 

NSW to increase renewable energy target 
More wind farm be expect to be build in New South Wales after the State Government 's decision to increase target for renewable energy . 
Ten per cent of all energy will need to be from renewable source by 2010 and up to 15 per cent by 2020 . 
Already a new $ 220 million wind farm have be announce for Tarago in the state 's south , while another development be tip for Woodlawn , near Goulburn . 
State Planning Minister Frank Sartor say more project will follow . 
`` There 's go to be opportunity for wind farm , for solar , biogas , a bit more hydro in some niche scheme in the state , '' he say . 

Meat processor offer cash incentive to find new worker 
South Australian-based meat processor T & R Pastoral be offer cash incentive to try to attract new abattoir worker . 
The company be look for 80 employee interstate to work in plant at Murray Bridge and Lobethal . 
Spokesman Brian Deavey say both meatworks be operate at full capacity a farmer destock and the additional labour be urgently need . 
`` We actually be assist with relocation cost and housing for people right around Australia to come to Murray Bridge and to Lobethal , our two South Australian plant to work , '' he say . 

Grown in Australia label a step closer 
The food processing industry be closer to develop a new label to clearly show whether food have be grow in Australia . 
Producers and some processor be concern that current label be mislead when it come to how much Australian product be include . 
The Federal Government have set up a work group to examine the issue and member David Gartrell say they have develop a workable proposal . 
`` What the work group endorse at the moment be implement a grow in Australia logo that would extend original brand option for package food product beyond the exist make in product of , '' he say . 

School child encourage to grow 1m red poppy 
A South Australian farmer be try to encourage school child to grow a million red poppy to replace the plastic flower we buy to mark Remembrance Day on November 11 . 
The poppy symbolise the French battlefield where thousand of young Australians lose their life during World War I . 
Nic Kentish from Mount Gambier have develop pre-packaged kit with seed , pot and instruction , to encourage student to grow the real thing to raise fund . 

Govt unable to contain sugar cane smut disease 
The Queensland Government have concede that it be unable to contain the devastating disease , sugar cane smut . 
It be confirm late yesterday that smut have reach the Mackay area after it be first find near Bundaberg in June . 
The industry have now turn it focus to limit the economic impact on the billion dollar sector . 
Eion Wallace , from the industry 's research and development arm , BSES , say smut may have be in Mackay for some time . 
`` The evidence at the moment would suggest that it 's an incursion that occur certainly before harvest and probably before this season , probably , '' he say . 
`` Which mean that it be not a failure of containment from Bundaberg and Childers but a separate incursion either at the same time a Bundaberg and Childers , or subsequent to it . '' 
South of the border , the sugar industry have launch a new round of crop surveillance . 
Rick Beattie , from the New South Wales Sugar Milling Co-operative , believe the disease may have be spread for at least a year but not be detect . 
He be ask farmer to check crop , so the disease can be detect early if it be there . 

NT campaign aim at control brumby number 
Authorities in the Northern Territory be develop an education campaign to try to control the number of wild horse on Aboriginal land . 
It be estimate that up to 90,000 brumbies live in the Territory , and Parks and Wildlife have concern about the environmental damage they be cause . 
Senior wildlife ranger , Kym Schwartzkopff , say the horse have be allow to run free and breed up . 
`` It be very hard to work with people out there that have get an affinity with an animal , so it 's a kind of tread lightly area , '' he say . 

Precise food label 'closer ' 
The food processing industry be closer to develop a new label to clearly show whether or not food have be grow in Australia . 
Producers and some processor be concern that current label be mislead when it come to show how much Australian product be include . 
The Federal Government have set up a work group to examine the issue , and member David Gartrell say they have develop a workable proposal . 
`` What the work group endorse at the moment be implement a 'grown in Australia ' logo that would extend original brand option for package food product beyond the exist 'made in ' , 'product of ' , '' he say . 

Rio Tinto hail emission-cutting pig iron process 
Mining giant Rio Tinto have develop a revolutionary method of produce pig iron for steel making that could slash greenhouse gas emission . 
Known a HIsmelt , the new technology have take 25 year and $ 1 billion to develop , and could replace high energy use blast furnace around the world . 
Managing director of the HIsmelt Corporation , Stephan Webber , say the process still require iron ore and coal , but remove the need for massive coke oven . 

Graincorp say low harvest estimate 2 million tonne 
Grain handler , Graincorp , be stick by it forecast harvest of two million to four million tonne across eastern Australia , despite the worsening drought . 
The late figure show 94 per cent of New South Wales be now affect by drought . 
But Graincorp 's central regional manager , Murray Wilkinson , say some area be produce good yield than expect . 
`` North Queensland and Moree be go to exceed those forecast that we have in to make-up the number , and it look a though Dubbo will as well , '' he say . 
`` At this stage we 're up to one point two million tonne in the system and I suppose the low end of the forecast be look promise at this stage . '' 
Only two per cent of New South Wales be now rat a have satisfactory condition . 

Sheep genome map nearly complete 
Science be one step closer to provide farmer with a complete genetic map of the sheep . 
The 'virtual sheep genome ' project have map 98 per cent of the sheep 's genetic make-up . 
That be enough to fast track the identification of the crucial gene for wool and meat quality , and even parasite resistance . 
Dr Robert Forage , who be lead the joint Australian Wool Innovation/Meat and Livestock Australia project , say the sheep 's genetic jigsaw be still not quite complete . 
`` It 's put together use bit and piece of information not only from the sheep but also from the cow and from the human as well , '' he say . 
`` So we do n't have all the information we need from the sheep . 
`` We 've put some piece of the jigsaw puzzle together but there be still hole in it - we think we know where everything fit but we do n't have the complete sequence yet . '' 

Sugar cane farmer brace for smut impact 
The Queensland government be try to assess the economic impact of sugar cane smut on the state 's sugar industry . 
The crop disease be find at Mackay last week , after first be detect near Bundaberg in June . 
The Government be move away from try to contain the disease . 
The Government have appoint an independent economist to head up a team to assess the impact and identify measure to manage the problem , and facilitate economic recovery . 
The team will report by December 18 . 
A stakeholder meeting on Friday be tell replant with resistant variety over the next five year will cost an estimated $ 800 million , with an additional burden of a 10 per cent reduction in yield . 

IR change to hit rural worker : union 
Unions say new Federal Government plan to allow company to stand down worker without pay when there be no work will particularly hit rural employee . 
The Australian Workers Union ( AWU ) say the plan to allow stand-down during natural disaster like drought will leave rural worker without pay and unable to claim the dole at the bad possible time . 
Stand-downs be already common with many rural employer , such a abattoir , but Roger Fletcher from Fletcher International Exports say it be best for company to negotiate with worker . 
`` It 's vitally important , '' he say . 
`` There 's no point in someone in Canberra or Sydney try to run our business in a different area . 
`` This be important in a lot of thing we do across Australia . 

Qld Govt mull water charge freeze 
The Queensland Government say it will consider call for a freeze on water charge . 
The lobby group Agforce and the Queensland Farmers Federation want charge waive for irrigation water that will not be deliver this year . 
Natural Resources and Water Minister Craig Wallace say the Government be cost the proposal , but want the Federal Government to contribute . 
`` The Acting Premier have give an undertaking to consider the Commonwealth and Agforce to implement water charge rate relief for people who be in exceptional circumstance , '' he say . 

Water a hot topic in Vic election 
Victorian farmer say water be their key voting issue in the run-up to the state election later this month . 
Transport , the city-country divide and good road be also among concern , accord to a poll of farmer at the Shepparton sheep sale , in the Goulburn Valley . 
`` My main issue would be water and Lake Mokoan , '' say one farmer . 
`` About the closure of that , it 's just not a good thing to happen , it 's go to affect community around this area . 
`` Whoever provide the most action on water will get the vote . '' 
`` Spending less money in the city and more on the country people , and the water issue - the poor Goulburn irrigators have to pay for water they ca n't get , '' say another . 
`` I 'm disappointed in the Government 's attitude to farmer our road and bridge be shock , '' another farmer say . 
Another , from Tallygaroopna , say water be the big issue of the campaign , a do a farmer from Moama : 

Water cut force farmer to make difficult choice 
Farmers in south-west New South Wales grow grapevine and citrus tree be start to consider which area of their property they will stop watering a a result of water allocation cut . 
Cheryl Rix from Western Murray Irrigation say irrigators be brace for another cut to their water entitlement , but no one expect a 32 per cent reduction . 
She say horticulturalists need to look at all the available information so they can make sound business decision . 
`` I 'd certainly encourage grower to really think about talk to their buyer and winery and work out what will be will be buy next year and chase down the financial counsellor and look at the exceptional circumstance , '' she say . 
`` The Department of Primary Industries will be run some session start next week to look at how we can manage water well on farm . '' 
The state 's Department of Primary Industries be send an emergency response team to to help farmer in the Murray and Murrumbidgee region who have have their water allocation cut . 

NSW irrigators say crop at risk after water cut 
Irrigators in southern New South Wales be reel after unprecedented cut to water allocation . 
Water for both the environment and agriculture have be par back . 
Inflows over the past five month have be the low on record and the NSW Government say town water must take priority . 
High security and carry over water in the Murray have be cut by another 32 per cent . 
While in the Murrumbidgee General security allocation have be cut by 5 per cent and high security user will see a 10 per cent reduction , Murrumbidgee Irrigation 's Brett Tucker say agricultural production will be decimate . 

Shearers spin yarn at WA reunion 
Shearing team from the 1960s have spend the weekend relive tale , at the fourth WA Shearers ' Reunion near Perth . 
The event be to keep alive a part of the state 's agricultural history , since the demise of the old shearing team which spend month on end travelling through the Pilbara and Kimberley . 
Don Mercer , 80 , be a shearing contractor from Wagin . 
`` The first year I be run a shearing team I have a shearer who get quite drunk and decide that he 'd fire a couple of shot into my room while I be in it , '' he say . 

US Democrats tip to push for animal ID system 
Tthe new-look US Congress be expect to push for mandatory country of origin meat labelling and an animal identification system next year . 
Democrats newly-elected to the majority will take the lead in write the next US Farm Bill . 
And Colin Woodall with the National Cattlemen 's Beef Association say livestock issue will be key . 
`` Including country of origin label [ and ] a ban on packer ownership , '' he say . 
`` As far a animal ID , we think that also be go to come up . '' 
Meat and Livestock Australia have consistently oppose mandatory label for ground beef , which could burden US processor and retailer with cost so high they would reject imported product . 

WorkChoices change leave rural worker 'vulnerable ' 
The High Court have dismiss the state ' challenge to the Federal Government 's new WorkChoices legislation . 
The state have argue the Commonwealth 's use of the Corporations Act to underpin it new workplace reform be not constitutionally valid . 
The High Court 's ruling today say it be . 
Tim Kennedy from the National Union of Workers say the decision crush the award system and leave low pay rural worker in a vulnerable position . 
`` Essentially for many many year a lot of rural and regional worker who work for small employer have rely on a state award system and arbitration system to set minimum term and condition , '' he say . 
`` They basically have ensure the public interest of people get pay that can support a family if you like . 

Chicken death blame on chemical in feed 
The death of almost 50,000 chicken on two farm near Brisbane have be attribute to an accident involve a load of feed . 
The food contain high level of Nicarbazin which be use to control parasite . 
The farm and the feed supplier have not be identify by Queensland Health or food safety authority . 
Dr Andreas Dubs from the Australian Chicken Meat Federation say the 150,000 chicken that recover from last week 's overdose have be clear for human consumption . 
`` The chemical be one which be use a medication quite frequently , '' he say . 
`` But in this instance it should n't have be there and it be present in the feed at a much high dose than it would normally be use . 

Wheat price fall a panic buying eas 
After a bullish run , wheat price have fall around $ 50 a tonne on the domestic market . 
Widespread panic buying by miller and feedlotters have ease , with the market fall heavily a more of the nation 's crop be harvest . 
Chairman of AWB International Ian Donges say there have be a reduction in tender activity and the cash price . 
`` I notice back when the harvest start in southern Queensland the market be roughly between $ 300 and $ 330- $ 340 a tonne , '' he say . 

Banks struggle to meet country demand for manager 
The big bank say they be find it hard to attract branch manager to country town . 
Most of the bank say they have double and triple staff number in rural area after the closure of hundred of branch during the 1990s . 
Rabobank have double it rural presence to 46 regional office and employ an extra 140 staff . 
Westpac have employ an extra 80 people nationally this year and double the size of it graduate program . 
The National Australia Bank ( NAB ) have employ an extra 120 people in it agribusiness unit over last two year . 
NAB spokesman Wayne Carlson say the company have have to offer 'sweeteners ' to lure more bank manager . 

AWI meeting discus challenge 
The major challenge face the wool industry be be debate today at the annual general meeting of peak body , Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) . 
Around 200 wool grower have converge on the RSL club in Armidale , in the heart of north-western New South Wales , to hear about the report card on Australian Wool Innovation for the past year . 
On the agenda , the progress of the propose merger with Australian Wool Services despite an estimated $ 27 million UK super debt , also the court case with animal right group PETA and the last minute jockeying , hand shaking and electioneering by the new candidate be well under way . 
The result of the election to finalise the new AWI board will be announce later on today . 

Dairy farmer to vote on R & D contribution 
Australia 's 6,000 dairy farmer will go to the poll early next March to vote on how much they be willing to contribute to research and development . 
Farmers pay 0.32 cent per litre of milk sell which , couple with Federal Government support , generate around $ 50 million a year . 
Pat Rowley from Dairy Australia say it be hard to ask farmer to step up their financial support during the drought but it be critical for the industry 's future . 

Long range forecaster look to autumn rainfall 
The Bureau of Meteorology and other long range weather forecaster be predict a good outlook for drought-hit area by autumn next year . 
But there be still some debate about how much good . 
Most long range forecaster agree it be not yet an exact science and they be use different system . 
But David Stephens from the WA Department of Agriculture be predict an 80 per cent chance of a good autumn break . 
In Victoria , independent forecaster John Moore say there be 90 per cent chance of an average year start with heavy fall in February or March . 
Queensland Sunspot observer Owen Beneict expect the dry to continue . 

Uranium action plan endorse 
The Federal Government have endorse a two-year action plan to remove impediment to the growth of Australia 's uranium industry . 
The Uranium Industry Framework Steering Group have release a report which outline recommendation for good public information and suggest involve Indigenous community in uranium mining . 
Michael Angwin from the Australian Uranium Association say global demand for uranium be grow quickly . 
`` The report be go to help Australians think about the industry on it merit , '' he say . 
`` It 's a factual and dispassionate review of the prospect for the industry and of the impediment to it development . 

CBH await board approval for Broken Hill mine 
A new zinc , lead and silver mine have be give the go-ahead at Broken Hill , in outback New South Wales , that should lead to 90 new job . 
Sydney-based CBH Resources plan to start work in January open up an unmined ore body within the famous line of lode . 
But general manager of the Rasp mine , Visko Suluchich , say the company board still need to approve the project . 

Rockmelon price increase 
Rockmelon grower in Western Australia 's Ord Valley have receive price that be up to 10 per cent higher this year . 
Rockmelons be the big horticulture crop grow in the region , worth $ 7 million a year . 
Grower David Menzell say the first price rise in 10 year be largely due to a shrink number of grower across northern Australia . 
But transport woe continue to plague grower , who be compete with other crop for truck . 
`` Our major issue be that Perth be a relatively small market but that 's where the transport be available so a lot of fruit go to Perth that would probably would n't have if we have other option and depressed price there , '' Mr Menzell say . 

'Murchopoly ' aim to open people 's eye to pastoralism 
A couple of creative woman from the Murchison in Western Australia 's pastoral region , have transform the game of Monopoly into their own 'Murchopoly ' . 
In their version , rather than buy Trafalgar Square , player chase Milly Milly Station . 
And rather than go to jail , player go into drought , but thankfully , in this game , you can get out free with a rain card . 
Murchison resident Louise Sellenger say the game be design to show how the area be unique . 
`` I suppose it 's more [ about ] open people 's eye to pastoralism itself [ and ] how different it be to everyday living , '' she say . 
`` You 've get various bit and piece to do that be n't normal farming . 

Wallaby meat processing industry propose for King Is 
Tasmania 's King Island farmer want to start process wallaby meat after the dismissal of an appeal against culling . 
The Administrative Appeals Tribunal rule against the Wildlife Protection Association of Australia in it effort to stop farmer shoot and export wallaby . 
Island land holder Hayden Bostock say the door be now open to develop the local industry . 
`` It would employ local people , could then cryovac your product , put the King Island logo on there and bang off it go , '' he say . 
`` That would be the most sensible thing to do . 

Woolgrowers back AWI director 
Woolgrowers have show support for the direction of their peak body , vote to retain the current board director of Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) . 
Growers have also vote to keep a wool tax of 2 per cent to fund AWI 's marketing and research . 
Five candidate have nominate for the three available position on the board , and AWI chairman Ian McLachlan be happy that grower have back the status quo . 
`` The board 's do the best it can , '' he say . 
`` I do n't want to get into a discussion about about people who do n't get onto the board and so forth , all I 'd say be that I would like to see these election conduct in a , for want of a good term , in a gentlemanly fashion , because this industry be far too important to have individual badmouth not only at election time but through the whole year , so in the future I would just hope we would march on together because there 's some prosperity out there if we get it right , '' he say . 

Healthier oil may lie in Canadian canola 
Work be under way to try to develop a healthy oil for commercial cooking . 
Canola oil be not suitable for baking , fry food and margarine because it do not have a long shelf life . 
The Victorian Department of Primary Industries be part of an attempt to breed a Canadian canola variety that be resistant to the disease blackleg , so it can be grow in Australia . 
Breeder Laura Maher hop the new oil will be put to the test next year . 

Grape grower , orchardists prepare for NSW cold snap 
Grape grower and orchardists in the central New South Wales range be prepare for a predicted cold snap over the next two day . 
Sub-zero temperature be be tip , which could bring further frost , which cause damage to apple , cherry and grapevine two week ago . 
Angullong grapegrower James Crossing have buy a spray which he hop can limit frost damage . 
`` Well currently we be just map out low-lying area of the vineyard to determine the area that be likely to be damage by frost , then we will be spray with a polymer spray to protect those vine from the cold weather , '' he say . 
`` We be look at about $ 400 a hectare for the chemical and application and we be look at do ten to fifteen hectare . '' 

Author predict new direction for wheat export 
The author of a new book look at AWB 's governance , say there be mount pressure from grain grower to completely deregulate Australia 's wheat export market . 
Under the present system , AWB operate the single desk and have the right to veto bulk export application from any other company . 
But director of Australia 's National Institute for Governance Stephen Bartos believe that will have to change . 
And for the first time , the east coast producer group , the Grains Growers Association , have outline it vision for the future of wheat export . 

Farmers call for consultation over water crisis 
The National Farmers Federation be call on the Federal Government to give farmer a place at the negotiating table , when decide policy to deal with the current water crisis . 
It say ad hoc state decision , like the 32 per cent reduction of carry-over water for New South Wales irrigators , be damage farmer confidence in water security . 
NFF president David Crombie be defend the lobby group 's role in influence the debate . 

Tasmania outline water plan 
Tasmania be put forward it case for new development under the National Water Initiative today . 
Primary Industries Minister David Llewellyn be hold talk with Federal Parliamentary Secretary for Water , Malcolm Turnbull . 
Mr Llewellyn say Tasmania have water shortage due to the dry season , and need infrastructure for irrigation , and regional water supply . 

Skills shortage , increase cost hit mine investment 
Investment in Australian mining development remain strong , but a new report say skill shortage and increase price for material and construction be cause delay , and drive up project cost . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) say a record 94 project , value at $ 34.9 billion , be in the advanced planning or construction stage . 
More than half be in coal and oil , with strong investment in iron , nickel , gold and alumina . 

Involve agriculture in carbon trading talk , adviser say 
An adviser in carbon trading say the agriculture sector need to be involve in talk about set up an Australian trading system . 
Carbon trading encourage company to offset the release of greenhouse gas , by plant tree or pay someone else to plant them . 
Prime Minister John Howard want to set up a taskforce to develop a carbon trading plan . 
Tony Beck from the Australasian Emissions Trading Forum say agriculture 's role a a carbon sink need to be take into account . 
`` We do n't know a lot about what 's go to be involve , '' he say . 

Wagyu property on market for $ 110m 
A unique beef property in the mid-west of Western Australia have hit the market with a price tag of $ 110 million . 
The 30,000-hectare property include 20,000 head of the elite breed of Wagyu beef . 
Selling agent John Garland say the ask price be strong , despite the dry condition that have be felt across much of WA this year . 
`` We 're not see any fall back in price at all , '' he say . 
`` If anything , one can say it be a constant , contain firming of value . 
`` Certainly there 's a premium involve in the culmination of the cattle and land here . 
`` The price at what we only say be around two and half thousand a hectare in general term be justified , if with it , go the herd of 20,000 Wagyu head of cattle . '' 
Meanwhile , one of Australia 's most famous cattle station resort have shed it interest in livestock . 
El Questro , in northern Western Australia , be sell to an international tourism group for $ 17 million earlier this year . 
The Voyages , Hotels and Resorts Group have sell it 5,000 head of cattle , and agisted the property 's 404,000 hectare . 
Spokesman David Hedges say the decision will allow the company to focus on it core business . 

Biodiesel club to produce cheap fuel 
Farmers in north-west Victoria have form a biodiesel club to produce cheap fuel . 
The Sunraysia biodiesel club have about 25 member and be experiment use recycled fish and chip shop oil , and plan to grow crop specifically for biodiesel . 
Club member Paul Geering hop the locally produce fuel will reduce cost for member by about half and say the final product depend on the quality of the original oil . 

Burdekin River regeneration underway 
Work have begin on the regeneration of the Burdekin River catchment in North Queensland . 
The Burdekin be one of nine Australian river to be target by Greening Australia 's Rivers to Recovery program . 
Spokesman Bob Osborne say the Burdekin be one of the most endangered ecosystem in Queensland , with the project to take up to 20 year , and cost around $ 20 million . 
`` We 're try to get less nutrient in the water , which mean more money for farmer ; get rid of the weed in the water system , that bring back oxygen , that bring back fish and that get the community in , '' Mr Osborne say . 

Ram breeder on show 
The Ram of the Year be a feature event of the annual Monaro merino ram sale in southern New South Wales this week . 
Buyers from across the country be be selective in their purchase during the drought . 
Winning ram breeder John Shiels , of Cottage Park , be go out on a high , retire after 56 year of breed and selling , and hop the industry have a strong future . 

Severe frost prompt call for financial help 
Tasmanian apple , pear and cherry grower be call for financial assistance follow record severe frost in the past two month . 
Fruit Growers Tasmania have start talk with the state and federal government , ask them for interest rate subsidy and to waive the asset test for Centrelink support . 
President Tim Reid say some grower have lose 90 per cent of their crop and many will not have a positive cash flow until the harvest in early 2008 . 

O'Connor to fight preselection decision 
Federal Labor 's agriculture spokesman Gavan O'Connor say he will appeal against his party 's decision not to support him a an election candidate . 
Mr O'Connor lose preselection in his Victorian seat of Corio earlier this year . 
Leader Kim Beazley say Mr O'Connor will not be remove from a the Opposition 's agriculture spokesman before next year 's federal election . 
Mr O'Connor say he be determine to stay on . 
`` I do n't intend to roll over to a bunch of factional spiv , '' he say . 

Snowy Hydro accuse of put power before people 
Irrigators in southern New South Wales be accuse electricity generator Snowy Hydro of put power before people . 
The company be under fire for hold back water from the Murray River . 
Murray Irrigation say cut back to water allocation have put stock and domestic supply to up to 2,000 farm at risk . 
Director Kel Baxter say although Snowy Hydro be legally allow to hold back the water it be morally wrong . 
`` I do n't want to see the power grid fail we 've get to have power but a little bit of power rationing because we 're short of the water to generate the electricity with , be that too much to ask ? '' he say . 
The NSW Minister for Natural Resources , Ian Macdonald say release the water would jeopardise electricity contract . 
`` Snowy Hydro have enormous contract that it be bind to abide by and if those contract be break then taxpayer will pay hundred of million of dollar , '' he say . 
Snowy Hydro have refuse to comment . 
Meanwhile the Victorian Government be plan to resume environmental flow into the Hattah Lakes in the state 's north-west . 
The program to water red gum be halt on Friday while water resource be assess . 
The Department of Sustainability and Environment say another five gigalitres of water will now be pump into the area , to top up the nine and a half gigalitres already use . 
But Robert Mansell from the Murray Valley Citrus Board say horticulturalists do not want to see water be waste . 
`` We all know that there 's a shortage of water , we think that it probably need to be manage a bit well , '' he say . 
`` It be just a principle in a time of drought . 

Grain demand boost index 
Strong demand for grain in the global market have help to boost the Westpac-NFF Rural Commodity Index for October . 
The index rise 6.4 per cent on the back of global price gain in wheat , barley , beef , canola , dairy and wool . 

Coles Myer planning to double homebrand range 
Coles Myer say farmer should not fear the growth of generic homebrand line . 
The company , which own the Coles and Bi-Lo supermarket chain , be plan to double it homebrand range to 2,000 product within the next few year . 
Many fruit and vegetable grower be worried that the supermarket giant will buy low-quality , cheap import to fill the range . 
But group quality manager Jackie Healing say the move should be look at a more of an opportunity than a threat . 
`` This be northing to be worry about , '' she say . 
`` The growth of house brand be a fantastic mechanism for drive quality and customer satisfaction , grow sale and increase loyalty to the Australian market . 

MLA defend red meat campaign in light of breast cancer research 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) be defend it campaign encouraging people to eat more red meat , despite new US research suggest it can cause an increase risk of breast cancer . 
Harvard University survey 90,000 woman between the age of 26 and 46 over 12 year . 
The university say the result show there be an increase risk of breast cancer , particularly from the regular consumption of processed meat . 
But MLA 's general marketing manager David Thomason say the `` eat red meat '' campaign be also base on scientific research . 
`` We do n't discount any research , '' he say . 
`` I mean it 's important in nutrition research to see it in context . 
`` There be no two nutrition research study that necessarily show the same result and this be one study amongst many . 

Incitec Pivot announce record profit 
Fertiliser manufacturer Incitec Pivot have announce a record after-tax net profit of $ 83 million , up 73 per cent on last year . 
Over the past 12 month internal cost cutting have shed 100 job , shave $ 30 million off cost . 

Qld producer look to cattle from interstate 
Cattle from South Australia and Victoria be be send to Queensland because seasonal condition have improve in the past few week . 
Jack Gleeson from Elders in South Australia say many Queensland producer be hold onto their cattle after recent rain and the market be look for livestock from interstate . 
He say the rain have not produce more feed for livestock yet but it have change market attitude . 
`` It have n't necessarily produce a huge body of feed in two week but the perception of the industry there be that their season have take a turn for the good , '' he say . 

Drought may force return of livestock 
Farmers in south-west Victoria who have be `` park '' dairy cow from drought area , say they may soon have to send them back . 
The big dry be now spread to high rainfall area force farmer to begin hand feeding . 
They be also worried that drink water will run out before the end of summer . 
Bernard Baxter from Simpson say farmer will have little choice but to send livestock home . 
`` I think that will come to a grinding halt , '' he say . 
`` It 's go to be life support mode at the moment and everybody for themselves to basically reassess the situation because only about a month , six week ago we still could have have the best year ever possible if the rain have of continue because it have turn for potentially the bad for our area here . 

Ag machinery company fold 
A South Australian agricultural machinery business be the late victim of the drought . 
Heaslip Products have go into voluntary liquidation after operate for 100 year . 
Managing director Joff Bound say the company have endure previous drought but sale this year have have completely dry up . 
`` The company do n't have a market because our customer have n't get any money to buy new machine and he 's go to have a bit of debt to repay probably after this drought disappear , '' he say . 

Fishermen not hopeful of major change to illegal fishing surveillance 
Fishermen in the Gulf of Carpentaria be not expect too much out of a meeting between federal Fisheries Minister Eric Abetz and his Indonesian counterpart today in Brisbane . 
Senator Abetz be expect to ask the Indonesians to help patrol northern water to curb illegal fishing but local fisherman say that will not address the damage already do to their fishery by foreign boat . 
Chairman of Gulf fisherman Gary Ward say great surveillance would be welcome but he be not hopeful of major change . 

Rock lobster fisher hopeful of price recovery 
Tasmania 's rock lobster industry expect price to finally recover to pre-SARS level this season . 
Fishermen have struggle with low price since the SARS virus decimate Asian market in 2003 . 
Rodney Treloggon from the Tasmanian Rock Lobster Fishermen 's Association say the early sign of buoyant market in China be promise . 
`` I do n't think the general community realise just what a devastating effect SARS have right throughout the fishing industry , not just the rock lobster fishery , '' he say . 

Snow fall surprise NSW resident 
An unseasonal cold snap sweep through Victoria and Tasmania have take part of New South Wales by surprise . 
After fall for most of yesterday , snow be still lie on the ground across the Monaro and southern tableland . 
There be also report of snow fall at Armidale and Walcha in the state 's north today . 
Robert Taylor from Cooma say they can get snow at any time of the year . 
`` Not often but it do happen , '' he say . 
`` My father have see snow on this place every month of the year throughout his lifetime , not all in one year , but during his lifetime he 's see it . 

Tuckey 's AWB plan create further uncertainty for grower : Joyce 
Liberal MP Wilson Tuckey be under fire for plan to ask Parliament to vote on remove AWB 's veto power over wheat export . 
National Senator Barnaby Joyce say Mr Tuckey 's plan for a private member 's Bill create further uncertainty for grower . 
Mr Tuckey want the veto remove so WA grain grower can sell their wheat to another exporter for a high price . 
But Senator Joyce say the enemy of Australia 's single desk for wheat export in the US and Europe will seize on any disunity within the Federal Government . 

AWI and PETA case will go to trial 
A Federal Court judge have tell lawyer for Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) and People for Ethical Treatment of Animals ( PETA ) that their case have chew up too much time and a trial date will be set . 
Justice Rares make the order today , two year after the AWI launch legal proceeding against PETA over it attack on mulesing and live export . 
He order all party to appear before him on December 14 for what he describe a a `` substantive case management debate '' . 
The judge say the time have come to bring some order to the case , in which AWI and 101 wool grower be sue PETA for it campaign aim at get international retailer to boycott Australian wool . 
Justice Rares tell lawyer they must present all evidence and full witness list , and ask them to consider if they want a jury trial . 

Mining company sign carbon trading deal with grazier 
A major mining company have sign a carbon trading agreement with Queensland grazier , pay them to keep their tree for the environment . 
In a landmark deal , Rio Tinto will pay three landholder in the Charleville area well over a million dollar to offset the release of greenhouse gas . 
Broker Mark Jackson from the Carbon Pool company say it do not mean the land be off limit . 
`` They continue their current management of the land , which be to say leave the current vegetation intact , continue with sustainable grazing activity so that the land be not lock up and do n't become infested with weed and feral animal , and they 're relinquish their right to clear , '' Mr Jackson say . 

US Farm Bill will have strong farm income protection 
The new chairman of the US Senate 's Agriculture Committee say the next US Farm Bill will have strong farm income protection , despite a global push to cut subsidy . 
Tom Harkin argue the White House have siphon billion ( of dollar ) from renewable energy , rural development , research and conservation , and he plan to fix that . 
But Mr Harkin be also commit to farm support in next year 's US Farm Bill . 
`` I will continue to view a good , sound system of farm income protection a essential , '' he say . 
And Mr Harkin promise to finally implement long-delayed mandatory country of origin meat labelling , strongly oppose by Australian producer . 
`` USDA have have plenty of time to figure out how to make it work . So you can bet your bottom dollar it 's go to be part of our farm Bill , '' Mr Harkin say . 

Road infrastructure make it hard for grain transporter 
Bulk grain transporter say Australia 's road infrastructure be so poor they be have difficulty cart this year 's reduce harvest from silo . 
The Australian Livestock Transporters Association say it Western Australian and New South Wales grain carrier member be carry more grain this year because rail operator have scale back their harvest work . 
Executive director Luke Fraser say a lot of the crucial network be not suitable for bulk carrier , so transporter face the expense and time delay of navigate a series of different state permit system . 
`` We 're find it increasingly around the country , '' he say . 

Harvester safety review 
Several hundred harvester in New South Wales might have to be fit with a safety device after the settlement of a high profile court case . 
WorkCover be withdraw it prosecution of machinery manufacturer CNH Australia and a New South Wales dealer over a 2003 farm accident , where a worker lose his leg while try to clear a blockage in a combine harvester . 
CNH Australia 's Stuart Redman say the company have agree to design , test and fit a device to make the particular model of header safer . 
`` It 's probably go to be like an interlock device on the ladder access the top of the combine and once the farmer pull down the ladder then it will cut off the machine . It 's still very much in design and test phase at this stage but that 's what we will be look at , '' Mr Redman say . 
The agreement only apply to the case IH 2388 header in use in New South Wales . 

SA ban on GM crop extend 
A moratorium on genetically-modified crop ( GM ) in South Australia have be extend to 2008 . 
The Upper House of the State Parliament pass the extension Bill last night after motion by the Greens and Democrats to extend the ban to 2009 be defeat . 
The decision bring SA into line with the crop ban in Victoria and New South Wales . 
SA Democrats leader Sandra Kanck believe the drought be be use to push the introduction of drought-tolerant GM crop but say the technology be not yet ready . 
`` The lobbyist for GM food and GM crop be very , very effective and there be this desire that 's hold out to people that you could make more money , '' she say . 

Talks aim to lift live sheep export ban 
The Federal Government be in talk with Israel to try to lift a ban on live sheep export from Australia . 
The ban be impose after six sheep be find to have scabby mouth disease on a shipment last month . 
Israel buy just 1 per cent of Australia 's live sheep export and 6 per cent of live cattle . 
Livecorp 's Cameron Hall have confirm 241 cattle die on another shipment to Israel this month and he say Australia 's reputation could be harm . 

Dairy industry task force to help farmer 
Major milk processor be offer dairy farmer interest free loan for additional water and feed to help them through the drought . 
As the dry threatens to lift cost and cut production , processor will also set up a dairy industry drought task force to help farmer get access to government funding . 
The Dairy Farmers Milk Co-operative have announce it will spend nearly $ 8 million to help farmer member . 
And Ross Greenaway from Murray Goulburn say additional water be an integral part of their package . 
`` People that be buy temporary water on the market we 're about to announce that we will be extend that interest free finance from the beginning of October , '' he say . 

Abetz secure agreement for coordinate fishing patrol 
The Federal Fisheries Minister say he be confident that Australia and Indonesia can work together to crack down on illegal fishing in our northern water . 
Senator Eric Abetz meet with the Indonesian Fisheries Minister yesterday and have secure an agreement for coordinated patrol along fish zone boundary . 
He say Australia do need to be self sufficient in the fight against illegal fishing but say support from Indonesia will help . 
`` The Indonesian Minister be very supportive of the concept of coordinate patrol which would see the Indonesian navy patrol on it side of the border , '' he say . 

Beef producer ' income increase 
Beef producer in Australia make more money this year , accord to the annual farm survey by the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics . 
Chief commodity analyst Terry Sheales say while the final figure have not be analyse , 2005/06 show a substantial income increase . 
He say it be the temporary result of good price , good seasonal condition and improve productivity 

French judge praise Australian wine quality 
A French wine writer who be judge at the National Wine Show in Canberra have praise the quality of Australian wine . 
The premium show only take wine that have previously win gold and silver medal . 
Michel Bettane have 15,000 wine in his a bulging cellar and believe Australian wine be improve every year . 
`` I think the average quality be high for the best wine because the wine be more precise , more elegant and perhaps more complex , '' he say . 

Water restriction may be toughen in Adelaide 
The South Australian Cabinet be consider tough water restriction for Adelaide by the end of the year . 
The River Murray Minister , Karlene Maywald , say she be disappointed that the city 's consumption have increase since restriction take effect . 
She say strong limit be need because of a lack of understand in Adelaide about the seriousness of the water shortage . 
`` I 'm certain that Adelaide people do n't understand the severity of the situation because we need to get that this be not a normal circumstance and this be the bad drought in history , '' she say . 

Drought claim grain exporter 
Best Western Commodities , a major container grain exporter at Grenfell in New South Wales , have appoint an administrator after business slow due to the drought . 
The company say there be no outstanding debt to farmer or carrier but there be a number of major creditor . 
Patrick Haire , from the Rural Market and Supply Association , say farmer should check out all of the organisation they be do business with . 
`` Our member encourage farmer to come and sit down , and talk with them if there be any concern by grower about the merchant they be deal with , '' he say . 

Wheat grower to be consult over change to single desk 
The Deputy Prime Minister say the Federal Government will consult wheat grower , before make any change to the single desk export system . 
Western Australian MP Wilson Tuckey be threaten to introduce a private member 's Bill in the Senate , call for the removal of AWB 's power to veto export application . 
Other Government MPs be also call for the veto to be remove once the Cole inquiry report be hand down . 
But Mark Vaile say the Government be not go to be rush into any hasty decision . 
`` The Cole inquiry be focus on the activity of three company , what you 're talk to me about now be the future arrangement to manage and market the Australian wheat crop , '' he say . 

Drought support package extend 
The Federal Government have far extend it drought support package . 
The Drought Force program , which allow farm employee who have be lay off to receive income support while still work on property , will be expand to other field like harvest contractor . 
The Workforce Participation Minister , Sharman Stone , say they will be allow to work 30 hour a week up from 15 and receive a $ 1,600 training grant . 
`` If you 're volunteer to work back on the farm while you 're receive your unemployment benefit and it 's a full time commitment you 've make , 30 plus hour , you wo n't have to keep your job seek up , you do n't have to keep present a diary say you 've look for so many job , go to interview and so on , and that really mean you can concentrate on that farm work , '' Ms Stone say . 

Murray Irrigation slash farm water supply 
Irrigation water to hundred of farm in southern New South Wales will be cut off next month a Murray Irrigation concentrate on maintain supply for stock and domestic use . 
The company say irrigation will be restrict to area close to the main channel , with consideration for contracted crop , feedlot and dairy farm . 
Murray Irrigation chairman Stuart Ellis say the restriction be necessary to prevent the whole system run dry by Christmas . 

Farmers march on Vic Parliament 
Farmers have rally in Melbourne today to raise awareness of rural issue in the final week of the Victorian state election . 
Farmers on horseback and on tractor have be part of a procession through the central business district to Parliament House . 
Goulburn Valley farmer Col Grinter say he be march over have to pay for irrigation water he will not receive this season . 
`` If the Government be fair dinkum about help u , well the first thing they can do be pay for any water that we 're not go to get , you know for a farmer to be lumber with a $ 20,000 water bill for example and not get any production out of it it make it pretty darn hard , '' Mr Grinter say . 

Put down malnourished stock : RSPCA 
The RSPCA be call on sheep and cattle producer to put down any livestock which be fall down due to lack of feed or water . 
The call come after a Western Australian livestock producer be fin $ 25,000 after be charge with six count of animal cruelty . 
The RSPCA say it find some sheep dead in a paddock , while officer be force to put down another six . 
RSPCA prosecutor Robin Moore say all producer have a responsibility to livestock and the drought be not an excuse for mistreatment . 

Frosts may halve crop production 
Unseasonal frost in Queensland 's crop region could halve production for some broadacre farmer . 
Below average temperature on Friday bring frost and even snow to some part of the Granite Belt in the state 's south . 
Crop specialist Paul McIntosh say while they 're still assess the damage , it already appear significant . 
`` There 's sorghum , grain sorghum , corn , forage sorghum and even the feed value like Dolichos lablab , and some of those soft crop they be absolutely black , and the Eastern Downs be definitely the big area that 's be hit , '' Mr McIntosh say . 

Grain audit under consideration 
The Federal Agriculture Minister say he will consider an annual national audit of grain stock . 
The Grains Council have call for the audit to address uncertainty about the level of grain hold in storage . 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics be currently investigate this year 's dramatically drought-reduced stock . 
Peter McGauran say with ongoing uncertainty over how much grain will be available for export or domestic livestock feed this year , the Government be continue to process 40 application to import grain . 

Chaff cart trialled in weed fight 
Grain grower in Victoria be try to find way to tackle herbicide resistance , especially a the big dry drag on . 
Farmers be trialling chaff cart , large enclose trailer that be tow behind header and collect screening , and small seed that would normally be leave in the paddock . 
Bernard Noonan from the Wimmera Conservation Farmers Association say they have be use successfully in South Australia . 

Hunt under way for Australia 's best young truckie 
The trucking industry have launch a national campaign to find Australia 's safe and most skilled young driver to try to change public perception about the sector . 
The winner will receive a $ 220,000 prime mover . 
The competition have never before be hold in Australia but have be a big hit in more than 30 country . 
Stuart St Clair from the Australian Trucking Association say the competition be an attempt to tackle any negative image of truck driving . 
`` The whole purpose of this be to show to the general public and to the industry itself about the professionalism of the industry and the fact that we 're look to attract young people into this business a driver and other support people , '' Mr St Clair say . 

SA investigate wine partnership with Chile 
The Chilean Government be look at a partnership with the wine industry in South Australia 's Barossa Valley . 
Chile 's Foreign Minister and Ambassador have make a fly visit to the region to talk about a joint effort to sell wine to Asia . 
State MP Ivan Venning say although Chile be a major competitor , it be worth investigate . 
`` I be initially quite cautious because why would you want to do a deal with an international competitor , a Chile be with u , in the world of wine but I think the Australian wine , particularly our Barossa wine and the Chilean wine do complement each other because they do n't have the premium red like we have , '' Mr Venning say . 

Farmers may look to cooperative for protection 
Agricultural cooperative could be about to make a comeback , accord to new research . 
Author Gary Lewis have be look at farm cooperative in Australia and say by allow many to be corporatised , farmer have lose an important weapon . 
He say farmer need to look after their own interest when it come to drought , water and politics , and form new cooperative be one way of do that . 

City folk urge to 'sponsor a cow ' to support dairy farmer 
Citysiders be be encourage to `` sponsor a cow '' to help a group of Victorian dairy farmer fee their livestock . 
The Stanhope and District Development Committee have come up with the plan to help the district survive the drought . 
Chairman Bob Holschier say the campaign will benefit the farmer but also help sponsor to learn about the farm sector . 

'Functional food ' may help prevent disease 
There be a grow trend in Europe to produce so-called 'functional food ' . 
The food be say to help prevent life threaten disease or curb potential health problem like obesity , heart disease and high blood pressure . 
Visiting food scientist Charles Daly , from University College Cork in Ireland , say there be also a trend to match individual human genetics to different food group to improve health . 
`` We have different genetic make-up and so that mean that we can have different susceptibility to some of the disease that we mention , and that mean that by look at the genetic make-up of sub population we can target food to those group , '' Mr Daly say . 

Watchdog call for accurate labelling of GM import 
Australia 's consumer watchdog have call for any genetically modify ( GM ) import to be label accurately . 
Choice , formerly know a the Australian Consumers Association , have raise the concern amid speculation that a major grain handler be expect a consignment of GM canola from Canada within the next month . 
Domestic canola supply be tight this season due to the drought . 
Choice spokeswoman Claire Hughes say consumer will not know they be eat GM canola oil . 
`` If we do start to see a large amount of genetically modify canola come into Australia , if it 's go to be process and use a oil , consumer would n't necessarily know if a product they 're purchase have be genetically modify or do contain genetically modify canola oil , '' she say . 
`` Because our GM labelling law do n't require a product that have be highly refine , those product do n't have to be label and canola oil be a good example of that . '' 
Federal Minister for Agriculture Peter McGauran say he be aware of the import , which be intend for use in oil for human consumption and meal for stockfeed . 
He say the consignment have be independently sample and test before load to confirm that only GM line approve by the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator be allow in . 

Doctors call for rural health community service obligation 
The Rural Doctors Association ( RDA ) claim the Federal Government be more concerned with ensure people have a phone rather than a doctor or hospital . 
It be call for a community service obligation for rural health , much like the one which force Telstra to provide service . 
New president Dr Peter Rischbieth from Murray Bridge in South Australia say million of taxpayer ' dollar pour out of rural community to subsidise metropolitan health service . 
`` They have the ethos that everyone should have a telephone and access to telephone repair , '' he say . 
`` [ The ] Rural Doctors Association believe they should have access to timely medical service . 

Sugar cane smut find on third cane farm 
A third Mackay cane farm have be find to have sugar cane smut , confirm fear that the fungal disease be widespread . 
The disease have be find on a property , 20 kilometre from the original find near Mackay , which have be discover on Melbourne Cup day . 
Mackay Area Productivity Service spokesman Alan Royal say smut now look to be well-established in central Queensland . 
`` It 's very , very sad but it 's right across the other side of town and the whip be reasonably advance but they 're certainly not big whip like we 've be see , '' he say . 
`` What do frighten me be on the weekend in one row at the initial farm , you know we be see whip that be four , five foot long , so it 's get a hold there but let 's hope we can get on top of it . '' 
Meanwhile sugar cane farmer in Western Australia 's Ord Valley be look for new variety , because some which be once resistant to cane smut be not any more . 
The disease be first find in WA 's north-west in 1998 . 
CJ Ord River Sugar spokesman Wayne Paul say 100 variety have be try in the past five year but only a handful have show promise . 
He say smut be also expect to reduce next year 's crop . 
`` Q95 be probably the bad . It 's get a bit of smut now whereas it do n't have early on , so that will probably be mostly plough out over the next couple of year , '' he say . 

Vegie grower tell to change 
Tasmania 's vegetable grower have be tell to change or be prepare to go out of business . 
A strategic plan have be release for the sector , raise a number of area to be address , like improve marketing and good relationship with food processor . 
Consultant Euan Laird , who help produce the report , say the change will see some grower leave the industry . 
`` Only the strong will survive , '' he say . 
`` It 's a really tough market out there and those that change and adapt , and modify , and meet the demand of consumer will survive so I 'll put an estimate that only 50 to 60 per cent of exist grower will survive in the long term and they be go to be those that be adaptable . '' 
Tasmania 's grower agree with the plan but most feel the hard work be still ahead . 
`` We 've get to start somewhere to get the vegetable industry off the ground or to stop it go back into the ground I suppose , '' one grower say . 

NSW Govt urge to allow grazier access to forest , national park 
The New South Wales Farmers Association want grazier to be give access to state forest and national park to help fee hungry livestock . 
The association say feed be become scarce a the drought intensifies . 
President Jock Laurie be urge the NSW Government to consider the proposal , which he say would help farmer hold onto core breeding stock . 
`` As far a we 're concerned it would be a good tool for the feeding of core breeding stock throughout this drought period , especially when feed reserve be so low , '' he say . 
`` You do n't need a long bureaucratic process to go through here , so get in and make a decision so that people can then plan well into the next few month about how they 're go to fee stock . '' 

Starlings attack cherry orchard 
Cherry orchard in central New South Wales be suffer major bird damage this year . 
Large number of starling be attack crop much early than normal , which grower believe be due to the drought and a lack of food . 
Cherry grower Guy Gaeta say he have never see so much damage . 
`` They be get to the cherry when they be still green , '' he say . 
`` Whether it be because they be hungry because of the drought . 
`` I have never seem them before and everybody in the district be have the same problem . They be not eat the cherry , they be just chop them off . 
`` They go to taste them and then they be sour . They pull it off the tree and then they go to another one hop it be a bit sweeter . 

Company offer incentive to encourage truckies to stay 
A major trucking company be plan to pay incentive to it driver to encourage them to stay in the industry . 
Road Trains of Australia say it be hard to find staff with many driver be lure into the mining sector . 
While a national campaign be under way to attract more young people towards a career in transport , Mike Bailey from Road Trains ' Mount Isa branch , say the company need to make an effort to ease the skill shortage . 
`` We 're try to start a scheme where - just within ourselves - that they get reward if they stay in the industry , in our employment , for a number of year , '' he say . 
`` At the end of that time they 'll get a bonus or whatever for hang in there , it 'll be like a miniature long service leave sort of thing . '' 

Increased pay help retain mango picker 
Improved wage have help to secure picker for the Northern Territory 's mango season . 
The NT Mango Association have set a recommended minimum wage of $ 16.50 this year , more than a dollar above the national award . 
President Peter Marks say there be not many picker around but the incentive have help to keep worker on for the whole season . 
`` We have the union involve , we have Aboriginal organisation involve and all the labour provider , '' he say . 
`` We ask their opinion how we should manage this situation because we could see it be not go to be good . 

Drought set to bring live export trade growth 
The Australian live export trade be tip to grow because of the drought . 
Lower price for sheep and cattle have prompt international market to step up demand for livestock which fell away after the Cormo Express incident in 2003 and more expensive livestock cost . 
Meat and Livestock Australia spokesman Mike Hayward say despite low price the trade do give producer another alternative during the dry time . 
`` It be really noticeable in the west when they really get hit with the drought early in the year , '' he say . 
`` A lot of livestock would have probably die on property if they have n't have the live trade . 

Wool bale fetch seasonal record price 
A super ultra-fine bale of have fetch a seasonal record of 70,000 cent a kilogram in Victoria . 
The 12.4 micron bale be the fine yet produce by Brockville grower Andrew and Annie Gardner , who have a farm at Penshurst , in the western district . 
The same buyer also pay 67,000 cent a kilogram for a 12.5 micron bale from Pyrenees Park in central Victoria . 

EC farmer assistance require rethink , expert say 
An environmental and climatic change risk analyst say the Federal Government need to rethink it exceptional circumstance ( EC ) assistance to farmer . 
The University of Canberra 's Dr Brian Button say he be oppose to EC funding because flood and drought be a natural occurrence and not exceptional . 
He say the Government should look at other way of help . 
`` Now in Canada the Federal Government sponsor to the tune of about $ 2 billion Canadian a year a crop insurance scheme , '' he say . 

New tree planting fail to secure farm biodiversity : research 
New research say offset the clearing of native vegetation with new tree planting be not an effective way to maintain biodiversity on farm . 
The Australian National University research suggest it take up to 300 year for newly-planted vegetation to provide the same food and shelter to animal and bird . 
Ecology Professor David Lindenmayer say the finding show a need to preserve remnant vegetation . 
`` We 've find this from our data on the south-west slope of New South Wales and it 's for reptile , it 's for possum and gilder , arboreal marsupial and also for bird , '' he say . 

Scientists claim new water filter halve purification cost 
Scientists in Italy say they have develop new way of filter water that should halve the cost of purification . 
The water membrane technology be already be use in other country to recycle waste , make bore water palatable and desalinate salty water . 
Professor Enrico Drioli from the University of Calabria say the membrane , which look like plastic wrap , mirror the natural filtering membrane in our body . 
`` Just a film that the one you can use for package your sandwich sometimes , so this film be able to be selective , '' he say . 

AWB 's profit drop 
Wheat exporter AWB have announce a 68 per cent cent fall in annual net profit to $ 58.1million . 
The company say it will pay a reduced final dividend of 4 cent , with the drought cut the harvest and less domestic grain trading . 
The oil-for-food inquiry have cost the company almost $ 24 million , while redundancy and restructuring have take $ 10 million off the bottom line . 
Managing director Gordon Davis say AWB will remain viable if it lose control of the single desk for wheat export in the wake of the Cole inquiry . 
`` AWB have be pursue a strategy of diversify it income away from pool management . We 've get strong and grow business in our international trading in Geneva , Brazil and India , '' Mr Davis say . 

Grain grower wo n't oppose removal of AWB 's wheat veto 
The Grains Council say it would not oppose any move by the Federal Government to remove AWB 's veto on wheat export application . 
There be a push from within the Government to take away the veto to allow other grain company to export wheat . 
But chairman of the peak body , Murray Jones , say grower must be consult before any major structural change be make to the single desk . 
`` We do n't know what the Government 's reaction will be and I 'm leave it open to them to make their reaction , '' Mr Jones say . 
`` We 've consult regularly and continuously during the course of the last few month and we 'll continue to do so , and continue to put forward the grower ' position , which be they wish to retain a single desk and they want to be consult if there be to be any change . '' 
The Grains Council say it want grower to have control of the export system . 
But the Australian Grain Exporters Association be push the Federal Government to remove the single desk . 
The association of bulk grain handler want an interim licensing system put in place to smooth the way for deregulation . 

Beazley tour NSW drought affect area 
Federal Labor leader Kim Beazley have begin a tour of central New South Wales to hear first hand how the drought be hurt rural family . 
Mr Beazley have use the trip to make his first announcement on drought policy , 
He visit three property near Forbes in the central west of New South Wales and will be show the Jemmalong Irrigation Scheme , which this year have a zero water allocation . 
Young farmer highlight the difficulty they be encounter in remain viable and tell Mr Beazley about their failed crop , many of which be to be irrigate . 
The Labor leader tell the producer if his party be elect , it would set up a series of research institute to help commercialise technology to good manage the drought . 

Live export trade inhumane , say RSPCA 
The RSCPA say it have proof that a majority of Australians believe the live export trade be inhumane . 
An national phone survey of 600 people by Roy Morgan Research have find almost 60 per cent believe the trade be cruel . 

MLA hold Adelaide AGM 
The livestock industry 's peak national body , Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) , be hold it annual general meeting in Adelaide today . 
Around 250 producer and industry representative have finish the producer forum which cover the current and future direction of the red meat industry . 
Many apology be receive from farmer , both local and interstate , who have be affect by bushfires and could not attend . 
Four resolution will be vote on at the AGM regard the election of MLA director , follow by a question period where the recent NLIS poll scandal and the process of register voter from levy pay producer be expect to be raise . 
At the same time , more than 150 cattle producer have rally on the Western Downs in Queensland , in a direct boycott of the MLA meeting . 
The Australian Beef Association ( ABA ) say it be protest against law and regulation that destroy the viability of producer . 
The rally have see producer travel from as far a Western Australia to attend the Queensland rally and chairwoman Linda Hewitt say she be go to call on the Australian Government to undertake a full review of Meat and Livestock Australia . 
The rally have already see a group of grazier hear from expert on depression and a psychiatrist who be highlight the need for help at the farm gate . 
Speaker Danny Beer from the US cattle produce organisation R-Calf have speak about it support for country of origin label in the United States . 

Uncontracted winegrape grower may be in demand 
Uncontracted winegrape grower might have more luck sell their fruit this year . 
A lack of water and frost damage in some part of Australia mean that remain grape be likely to be in demand . 
Mike Stone from Murray Valley Winegrowers in Victoria say preliminary figure show the come harvest could be several hundred thousand tonne down on last season . 
`` Already we have hear of some offer for cabernet sauvignon and merlot of around $ 400 a tonne , so there be evidence of more interest , '' he say . 

Biofuels industry face grain cost challenge 
A new report say the big challenge for the fledgling biofuels industry be to keep down the cost of grain for alternative energy production . 
The independent report predict Australia will almost double it production target of 350 million litre of biofuel by 2010 . 
But report author Graeme Bethune say cost be the big problem and eventually grain which be currently export may be in demand by manufacturer . 

Nuclear power report wo n't help uranium industry in short term 
Australia 's uranium sector say yesterday 's positive review into nuclear power will make little difference to the industry in the short term . 
Although share price in uranium explorer rise on the back of the Switkowski report , the Association of Mining and Exploration say Australia 's uranium reserve be still under-utilised . 
Spokesman Ian Loftus say the public tend to confuse nuclear energy with uranium mining . 
`` We have some of the world 's great resource in term of uranium in the ground and we have the ability here and now , subject to government approval of course , to dig up that uranium and use it to provide fuel for clean electricity for other part of the world , '' Mr Loftus say . 

McGauran support environmental stewardship concept 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have tell a national conference on land management that the Government support the idea of pay farmer for environmental work . 
Mr McGauran have back the environmental stewardship concept at the first national gathering of Australia 's 56 natural resource management group on the Gold Coast . 
Andrew Drysdale from the Queensland Regional Groups Collective say the payment scheme be welcome but might not come into effect until 2008 . 
`` The noise that [ be ] come out of Canberra , it 's not only about funding but how the funding be go to occur , '' he say . 
`` They 're start to talk about stewardship payment now which breach that problem of be tie to election cycle . 

Rising humidity , heat aid croc growth 
The rapidly rise humidity and heat in the Northern Territory be prove good news for crocodile farm . 
Many be busy grade baby saltwater crocodile , accord to size . 
At Noonamah on the outskirt of Darwin , Mick Burns be sort 12,000 baby reptile , which be more than one-metre long . 
`` The animal get very dominant and territorial and they 'll blue with any small animal , '' he say . 
`` No loss of finger but certainly there would be a few little nip . 
`` This year have be pretty slow because we have have such a cold dry season , it 's the third or fourth large number of day that have be below a certain temperature so that certainly slow down the animal . 

Student conference aim to share environment knowledge 
With debate about the future of drought-stressed river in the headline , Canberra student have launch plan for an International Conference on River Health . 
The conference , set for October next year , will bring more than 600 student from across Australia and around the world to Canberra to share knowledge about their environment . 
Founder and convener Arron Wood say it be important to let our future leader explore river issue now , so they have a head start . 
`` To have kid from small town like Mildura and Renmark , and those sort of thing , talk to someone in the Amazon about the issue that they 're face , '' he say . 

Cities urge to consider buy water from irrigators 
A report commission by the Federal Government say city will need to consider buy water from irrigators to address major urban shortage . 
Report author John Marsden say buying water from irrigators be a possibility for Melbourne , Adelaide , Perth and Canberra . 
He say community must consider the option . 
`` In general there 's be a reluctance by government to put this issue firmly on the table because of fear of upset rural electorate , '' he say . 
`` But of course , the rural waterholders trade water all the time , between themselves and there 's no reason why the trade ca n't be with other party , include with the city . '' 
Meanwhile the National Water Commission have confirm it be conduct a feasibility study into pip water from so-called `` water rich '' area of northern New South Wales , to drought-affected south-east Queensland . 
The study , which will go to the Federal Government , be look at river include the Wilson , Brunswick , Richmond , Tweed and Clarence . 
Although the region have high rainfall , Wayne Franklin from Rous Water say there be not enough water to pipe across the border . 
`` When you look at the Clarence and the Clarence be the one below u so we 're centre on the Richmond Valley , '' he say . 
`` If you look at either of our valley and the amount of water we have we 're really small fry compare to Queensland . 

ABARE chief to take on climate change role 
The nation 's new chief commodity forecaster say predict the effect of climate change on agriculture will have to become part of his work . 
Phillip Glyde have be appoint executive director of the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) after work in the Departments of Prime Minister , Industry and Agriculture . 
He say the agency need to be responsive to industry and farmer need but say provide economic analysis on climate change will be difficult . 
`` I think it be something that we will be do more on , I hesitate to say when , '' he say . 
`` Really the issue there be the quality of the science and really the economic analysis flow from the science . 
`` One of the problem we 've get at the moment be that impact of climate change at a regional level or on a particular industry be n't really that well know . '' 
Meanwhile grain farmer be be urge to factor in climate change when planning for the future . 
Dr Peter Hayman from the South Australian Research and Development Institute have win a 'Seed of Light ' award from the Grains Research and Development Corporation for his effort to make farmer aware of climate change . 
He say many grain grower be now wonder how to adapt . 
`` Certainly , no longer be people say - what be climate change , be this something my grandchild have to worry about ? '' he say . 
`` They 're concern about it and want to know more information about it now and what it mean for their decision-making and planning . 

Water use for timber plantation to be manage 
Tasmania be move to manage water use by the timber plantation sector a part of a review of it Water Management Act . 
The review be recommend a study of water right security and tenure , change to the dam approval process and a risk management strategy for water use by large scale land use change . 
Alan Harradine from the Department of Primary Industries and Water say catchment model need to be refine . 
`` Under the National Water Initiative we basically be require to put in place those option , '' he say . 

Cattle producer urge to audit livestock record 
The Australian Beef Association ( ABA ) want cattle producer to audit their livestock record list on the database of the National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) . 
The system , which be design to track every animal through electronic ear tag in case of a disease outbreak , have be heavily criticise by the breakaway group . 
New president Brad Bellinger from New South Wales say the ABA 's own research show only 30 per cent of NLIS producer record be accurate . 
`` Now their own audit be the matter of match what their actual property sale be to what be actually register on the NLIS database account , '' Mr Bellinger say . 
`` We want to point out to the regulator and the Minister how bad the situation , how inaccurate the NLIS system be . '' 
The Federal Government have commission an official audit of the database . 
Meanwhile the peak national body , Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) , be call for unity within the cattle industry . 
The ABA boycott MLA 's annual general meeting in Adelaide yesterday and stag a rally in Queensland . 
MLA chairman Don Heatley say cattle producer need to resolve NLIS issue by work together . 
`` Yes , there be criticism , and I do n't resile from the criticism , '' he say . 
`` At the end of the day we 've develop a new system and NLIS be new and it 's not perfect at this stage but we will continue to work on it . 

Pig tracing may go high-tech 
The pig industry be consider launch an electronic system to trace animal . 
The industry have already set up a traceability system call Pig Pass , where producer who export pig fill out national vendor declaration form . 
But Bill Salter from producer group Australian Pork Limited ( APL ) say they be now look at a paperless system with swipe card instead of individual animal tag . 
`` The system would work on the basis of have everyone involve in Pig Pass actually be register on the APL database , '' Mr Salter say . 

Biodiesel plant open 
A $ 48 million biodiesel plant have be officially open in Darwin today . 
It be initially expect to annually produce 150 million litre of biodiesel use import palm oil . 
Natural Fuels manage director Dick Selwood say work be under way to develop a Territory soya bean industry to supplement the feedstock . 

Native flower export wilt 
Australia 's native flower sector expect to lose about 30 per cent of it export flower crop this year . 
Drought , frost and hot weather have decimate crop , with some grower report bud loss of 50 per cent and hundred of thousand of flower which be unsaleable . 
Tony Kosky from the Australian Flower Export Council say low production level will affect Australia 's international reputation a a reliable flower supplier . 

Beazley commits to examine replant scheme 
The federal Opposition Leader have commit his party to examine a replanting scheme for farmer in drought affect area . 
Kim Beazley have be in central western New South Wales to look at the impact of the drought . 
He say it be obvious people be hurt and assist farmer to plant crop when condition improve be one way of help . 
`` In the short term I 'll need to take back and talk through with my colleague the thing that need to happen with regard to the various drought program , state and federal , '' he say . 

Cane toad help reduce mosquito number 
If you dread summer because of the mosquito , you might need to start hang around cane toad . 
As part of a study into the effect toad be have on native fauna , a team of scientist have find cane toad tadpole be reduce mosquito number . 
Professor of ecological biology at the University of Sydney Rick Shine say the toad could be contribute to good human health . 
`` We 've simply set out bowl of water with and without cane toad tadpole , we 've put mosquito larva in there and we 've see whether or not the mosquito larva do survive and what size mozzie actually fly out at the end , '' Prof Shine say . 

Prospect for rain improves 
The National Climate Centre say a duel between sea temperature in the Pacific and Indian ocean could bring slightly high rainfall to much of Australia . 
Indian Ocean temperature be rise off Western Australia and up to Indonesia , cancel out a worsen El Nino effect in the Pacific Ocean . 
There be now a 50 per cent chance of average rainfall across most of Australia in the next three month , although north Queensland could be dry . 
Senior climatologist Lyn Bettio say the prospect of rain certainly have not get any bad . 
`` It 's actually look good than what it be last month , '' she say . 

Merino price plummet 
Prices for top merino sheep have plummet at the annual Yass circuit sale , in New South Wales , once a stronghold for fine and superfine wool . 
With a large offering than last year , merino sheep and cross breed lamb be be offload a the drought bite deep , with ewes be pass in for $ 1.50 each . 
The average price for Roseville ewe of the Merryville line be $ 10 , down from a height of $ 70 in previous year . 
Richard Buckmaster say the low price will hurt farmer . 
`` It 's very disappointing . I know we 've get bad season and everything but I think this be the bad we 've have in 17 year of circuit sale , '' Mr Buckmaster say . 
In general , the wool market have ease this week , fall 2 per cent at sale in Sydney , Fremantle and Melbourne . 
The eastern market indicator ( EMI ) fell 18 cent , to finish the week at 826 cent a kilogram . 

Stronger quarantine condition for import prawn recommend 
Biosecurity Australia have recommend tougher quarantine restriction on prawn import , which could effectively end the trade . 
The domestic industry have call for an end to import due to disease concern , although importer oppose any tough restriction . 
Federal Fisheries Minister Eric Abetz say if the draft recommendation be adopt , most of the country which currently send prawn to Australia will not be able to prove they be free of disease . 

ACCC clamp down on misleading label 
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ( ACCC ) be clamp down on mislead claim be make about food and drink . 
It have publish new guideline on what can be label organic , free range , natural and fresh . 
Commissioner John Martin say producer and processor of everything from egg to fruit juice be increasingly flout the law but will not be able to get away with it for long . 

Legislation block grasslands clear 
After three year of wrangling , Tasmania have pass legislation to protect remnant grassland from land clearing . 
The controversial legislation be only pass yesterday in Tasmania 's Upper House after a number of modification be make to the Bill . 
Tasmania be oblige under a federal agreement sign in 2003 to protect non-forest native vegetation . 
President of the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association , Roger Swain , say the legislation be restrictive but at least provide certainty . 

Govt contribute to WA carbon trial 
The Federal Government will contribute $ 60 million towards the world 's big carbon capture and storage trial in Western Australia . 
The money will go to the Gorgon natural gas project off the Pilbara coast , which be still wait for the final go ahead . 
If it proceed , 125 million tonne of excess carbon dioxide will be liquefy and bury 2.5 kilometre under the sea bed in saline aquifer . 
Environment Minister Ian Campbell say it be imperative the project get off the ground . 
`` The Gorgon project , be the big one of it type anywhere in the world , in fact big than all of the other project in the rest of the world put together , will help u demonstrate that it can be do safely , that you can put in place a regulatory environment around it , put the risk management technique around it , '' Senator Campbell say . 

Irrigators discuss compensation with Premier 
New South Wales farmer have meet with Premier Morris Iemma to ask for compensation for their cut water allocation . 
The Government have slash carry over water allocation for Murray River irrigators by half . 
What water be available will only be give to customer near the major supply channel to reduce evaporation . 
Chairman of Southern Riverina Irrigators Ted Hatty say the Government have not offer any immediate help . 
`` The Premier have say that he will look at what he can do , he say we 're talk week not month , so I suppose that be a positive , '' he say . 

Dairy Aust wo n't ask farmer to increase service levy 
Dairy Australia say it will not ask farmer to support an increased service levy next year . 
A poll on the levy will be hold in February and March , with farmer to be offer three option . 

Better livestock management may prevent rattle disease spread 
The thoroughbred horse industry say new research could protect hundred of foal from the disease know a rattle . 
The debilitate bacterial infection be believe to be bring on by dry and dusty weather , and cost the industry million of dollar a year . 
Researcher David Hodgson say good livestock management could prevent the disease spreading . 

New president elect to Sheepmeat Council 
Australia 's peak sheepmeat body have appoint a new president . 
New South Wales prime lamb producer Chris Groves will head up the Sheepmeat Council of Australia , replace outgo president Ian Feldtmann . 

Top drop go down well with National Wine Show judge 
The 2004 and 2005 vintage have prove popular with the judge at this week 's National Wine Show in Canberra . 
Only premium wine that have win other award can enter , with the main award go to wine from Margaret River , the Hunter Valley and the Yarra Valley . 
Chairman of judge James Halliday say top drop be cheap because of the wine glut . 
`` 2004 , 2005 , 2006 which be the three vintage which have bring the oversupply issue right onto the front page , happen to have be three very good vintage , '' he say . 
`` So if you 're go to have too much wine it 's rather a good thing to have too much good wine , or very good wine , rather than too much bad wine . '' 
Meanwhile drought , frost damage and low water allocation be draw down Australia 's wine stock glut faster than anticipate . 
The wine industry have revise down it estimate for next season from 900-million litre to 460-million litre . 
Predictions for another extreme drought season next year be expect to bring yield down by 20 per cent . 
Lawrie Stanford from the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation say the excess stock be certainly drop and that be good news . 
`` The late estimate that the industry have be that stock above a desirable level would rate at something like 460 million litre , '' he say . 

Far north Qld fruit wine in demand 
The maker of tropical fruit wine in far north Queensland say they be struggle to keep up with demand . 
The wine be make from fruit include passionfruit , native tropical berry , banana , lychee , rambutan and black sapote . 
Tony Woodall from the Tropical North Queensland Wineries Association say the region have become the world 's leading commercial fruit wine producer . 
`` Some of the fruit be quite bland like grape and do n't make a particularly nice wine , '' he say . 
`` Not say grape do n't , they do of course . 

Cole inquiry report finalise 
After nearly a year of public hearing , 7,500 page of court transcript and more than 70 witness , the final report of the Cole inquiry be finish . 
Commissioner Terence Cole be today hand the document to Australia 's Governor-General Michael Jeffery in a brief ceremony at Admiralty House , the official Sydney residence of the Governor-General , 
It will advise the Federal Government on the action it should take against monopoly wheat exporter AWB and two other Australian company for kickback payment they make to the Iraqi regime in breach of UN sanction . 
AWB be by far the large contributor , pay more than $ 290 million . 
Huge secrecy surround the content of the report , which will be table in Federal Parliament next week . 
It be widely predict Commissioner Cole will recommend the laying of criminal charge against some AWB executive . 
The report 's content will also have a bearing on the future of the single desk . 
Meanwhile the author of an AWB commission report into wheat export say change to the single desk be inevitable . 
But the report say any change should take place gradually , to minimise the impact on wheat grower . 
Former world trade commissioner and report author , Alan Oxley , have warn that any immediate change could hurt 12,000 grain grower from marginal area . 
`` These tend to be farmer who be not in upper income group who be solely dependent on grain in area where there be variability , '' Mr Oxley say . 
`` So as far a we be concern they be concentrate in the eastern wheatbelt of Western Australia , and on the Eyre Peninsula ( in SA ) , and in western NSW . They be the one who tend to rely on the collective marketing of their crop . '' 
But independent grain analyst Malcolm Bartholomaeus disagree . 
He say most farmer would take advantage of an open market . 
`` I 'm not sure that we hold back the entire industry for a small group who may have a little more trouble adjust . Farmers be n't silly , you change the rule and they rapidly adapt , '' Mr Bartholomaeus say . 

Dry condition to blame for slump in farmer ' confidence 
The confidence of Australian farmer have slump to it low level in six year . 
The state of mind in rural Australia be reveal in the late Rabobank Rural Confidence Survey . 
Just 15 per cent of farmer expect the rural economy to pick up over the come 12 month compare with 19 per cent last quarter . 
The state hardest hit be Victoria , New South Wales and South Australia . 
Rabobank 's head of rural banking , Neil Dobbin , say ongoing dry condition be largely to blame . 
`` This be the low confidence farmer have have since the survey start , which be six year ago . Sixty-five per cent of the farmer think that income would worsen over the next 12 month , '' Mr Dobbin say . 

Tasmania struggle with drought 
Conditions continue to deteriorate in Tasmania after record low rainfall and river flow . 
The president of the Tasmanian Farmers and Graziers Association , Roger Swain , say the State be experience one of it bad season in 100 year . 
He say while pocket of the State be have a reasonable year , the extended dry and heavy frost be make the season tough . 
`` It 's quite clearly a drought , you only have to look around and see , '' he say . 
`` We 're look at the ground now almost a if it be February here in Tasmania . 
The National party 's resurgence in country Victoria be continue , with more vote count in the state election . 
Labor have concede defeat in the Gippsland seat of Morwell with the seat go to Russell Northe from the Nationals , with the help of Liberal preference . 
The Nationals also take the seat of Mildura from independent MP , Russell Savage , in a swing influence by Labor 's proposal for a toxic waste dump in the electorate . 
The Nationals have increase their Lower House number by two to nine member in a poll where they fear they would be nearly wipe out by preference deal . 

German company buy wool directly through producer 
One of the world 's major wool spinner have start buy greasy wool directly from merino producer because of high level of dark fibre contamination in wool be sell through Australian auction room . 
German company Sudwolle process 200,000 bale a year at mill in China , Germany and Poland - the equivalent of 10 per cent of the Australian wool clip . 
It have be trialing buying wool through an Adelaide firm , which source bale from a small group of fine wool grower . 
Director of purchase Gotz Giebel blame the high contamination rate on a trend by grower towards sheep which produce both meat and wool , which have more black fibre in their fleece . 
`` We have initiate that because we notice a lot of quality problem and due to our size and our market situation we think we have to do something in the industry , '' he say . 
`` Also to encourage grower and that 's very important . 
`` We also want to reward the grower for good quality . '' 
But wool broker and buyer in South Australia believe local producer have grow one of the best clip of the past five season . 
Landmark 's state wool manager Trevor James say the quality have hold up despite the lack of rain . 
`` Probably that early rain in March put a bit of feed on the ground and that early rain make a big difference , so we 've get a lot of really good length , good sound wool , probably be the best we 've see for five year and we 've have some really fantastic wool come through , '' he say . 

Lamb feedlot shed open for business 
One of eastern Australia 's big lamb feedlot shed have open . 
Based in Goondiwindi , in southern Queensland , it will house more than 3,500 sheep undercover . 
Owner Kerry Corish say they originally expect to sell around 15,000 fat lamb a year but that number have significantly increase due to the drought 
`` I think at the moment the way it look and the drought condition , and because we 've buy far more sheep than what we anticipate we would be able to buy , and that 's simply drive by the drought and because ( of ) the large number available down south and the price drop in sheep , that we probably will go 20,000 plus , I would imagine , '' Mrs Corish say . 

Cattle price down 
Despite cattle supply number be low in all state , weak demand at southern market in the last week have a downward effect on national indicator price . 

Dairy Australia elect new president 
A dairy farmer from Bega in southern New South Wales have be appoint chairman of the peak industry body , Dairy Australia . 
Max Roberts will replace Pat Rowley to lead the farmer-funded research and development organisation . 
Mr Roberts say $ 57 million in levy money be spend last year to help farmer survive the drought and fight for their right . 
`` Our leadership role be [ to ensure ] the farmer have good information and water again be another good example a the dairy industry be probably the big single user in agriculture of water , '' he say . 
`` We 've get to be able to defend our position and make sure our argument be good and sound because there 's a lot of competition for that water . '' 
Farmers will be ask to vote on three levy option early next year . 
Because of the drought , Dairy Australia be ask them to maintain the current levy rate rather than increase it . 
Mr Rowley represent dairy farmer at a state , national and international level for more than 30 year . 
He also help create the peak body five year ago and say he be sorry to be leave at such a testing time . 
`` I 'm sure the industry will no doubt get through this drought and it always rain at the end of a drought , but there will be some people who will struggle very hard and that be sad to me a I go , but it would n't matter when I decide to go , there would be some challenge somewhere , '' Mr Rowley say . 

Court close chapter on native title claim 
Members of the Federal Court have don heavy black robe in 40 degree heat to close a chapter on a series of long-running native title claim in north Western Australia . 
At a small community outside of Kununurra , the court grant native title to almost 7,000 square kilometre of the East Kimberley , bring the total land under native title in the region to 35 per cent . 
Edna O'Malley from the Miriuwung Gajerrong Corporation say the ruling not only allow access to country but will bring economic benefit in the future . 
`` Like the judge say today , it be only a pen to the paper to end 12 year of hard struggle , '' she say . 

Polystyrene fish sculpture aim to raise environmental awareness 
The large murray cod ever photograph be slowly be carve out of polystyrene by community along the River Murray . 
South Australian sculptor and geologist Indiana James have be encourage people to help him replicate the huge cod , which be nearly two and a half metre long and weigh a whopping 180 kilogram . 
He be hop to raise environmental awareness through his journey which begin in 2002 . 
`` Everybody love a big fish and a big fish story , '' he say . 
`` I know a lot of people would come and talk about the fish , and my real agenda be the health of the river and keep an awareness of the health of the river in the public eye . 

Bill aim to strip AWB of veto power 
Two Liberal senator from Western Australia be plan to introduce a private member 's Bill to the Senate today call for the removal of AWB 's veto over wheat export . 
Senators David Johnston and Judith Adams say change be need whatever the outcome of the Cole inquiry report into AWB , set to be table in Federal Parliament this afternoon . 
Senator Johnston say even if the Bill fail , the Federal Government should act to remove the wheat export veto immediately . 
`` With about 70 per cent of wheat grower in Western Australia engage in harvest , withhold their wheat from the statutory marketing single desk operator , I think it 's a crisis and I think it 's a crisis that need to be address now , '' Senator Johnston say . 
The National party 's resurgence in country Victoria be continue , with more vote count in the state election . 
Labor have concede defeat in the Gippsland seat of Morwell with the seat go to Russell Northe from the Nationals , with the help of Liberal preference . 
The Nationals also take the seat of Mildura from independent MP , Russell Savage , in a swing influence by Labor 's proposal for a toxic waste dump in the electorate . 
The Nationals have increase their Lower House number by two to nine member in a poll where they fear they would be nearly wipe out by preference deal . 

Govt assess wheat export system future 
The Federal Government have start consider the future of the wheat export system follow the Cole inquiry report . 
Federal Government minister be satisfy they have survive the Cole inquiry unscathed . 
But now they be face the difficult task of decide whether the wheat export system rorted by AWB need to be change . 
Liberals include Wilson Tuckey and Bill Heffernan want change . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say his party want to keep the single desk in some form , although he realise that be not the view of the whole Cabinet . 
However he say AWB may yet be part of the solution . 
US Wheat Associates , the export marketing arm which represent American wheat grower , want the single desk remove . 
The association 's president , Alan Tracey , say Australian farmer have be dupe by AWB and the single desk be distort world trade . 
He say the association will support move by the powerful US Senate Agriculture Committee to conduct it own inquiry into AWB . 
`` AWB have a subsidiary in the United States , the fund that come from the oil-for-food program move through US bank , '' he say . 
`` There be a lot of connection here and possible violation of US law . 

South Korea reject US beef shipment 
South Korea have reject a US beef shipment over a tiny bone fragment , deal a major blow to US effort to recapture the market . 
US beef be first ban in Korea after mad cow disease be detect in Washington state in 2003 . 
US Agriculture Department Deputy Under-Secretary Chuck Lambert be upset , not just that Korea will not accept any bone in US beef , which could transmit mad cow disease , but by the way it handle the initial post-mad cow US shipment . 
`` It 's disappoint that they 've go to the length that they have to identify this small , very small piece of bone in more than nine tonne of product , '' he say . 
The US have ask an international standard set body to assign the US a mad cow-risk classification but insist US beef meet exist safety guideline . 

Quarantine protocol impose on NZ avocado 
Biosecurity Australia have impose new quarantine protocol on avocado import from New Zealand . 
The disease avocado scab have be find in New Zealand and be not know to be in Australia . 
The new rule will require fruit to be spray before harvest and dip in copper after harvest . 
Hugh Moore from NZ Avocado Growers say 90 per cent of the crop come to Australia in a market worth $ 30 million and he be reject any suggestion that fruit import should be ban . 
`` The spraying mechanism do work and that 's in their own science , '' he say . 

Grain handler post record profit 
South Australian-based grain handler ABB Grain Limited have post a record $ 66.7 million profit for 2005-2006 . 
The result be up 60 per cent , largely due to expanded marketing , storage and handle operation . 
But there be concern about the ongoing drought . 
Managing director Michael Iwaniw say to cut cost , the company be reduce staff and operation , and suspend executive salary increase . 
`` We 've close 40 receival site , we have reduce our casual labour significantly and we be look at transfer our permanent labour force across the state so we 'll utilise labour more efficiently , look at reduce operating hour , '' he say . 
`` You 'd expect a fall in profit and we 've allude to that . 

VFF demand end to Goulburn-Murray water trading 
The Victorian Farmers Federation ( VFF ) want the State Government to stop water be permanently trade between the Goulburn and Murray River system . 
Currently irrigators on the Goulburn system only have access to a quarter of their annual water allocation , while Victorian irrigators on the Murray can use 95 per cent . 
When a water allocation be trade from the Goulburn to the Murray , it be automatically increase from 23 to 95 per cent . 
VFF water resource committee spokesman Richard Anderson say a a result , Murray irrigators be now worry their allocation be at risk . 
`` Once it 's transfer down on to the Murray system , the person buy that megalitre of water actually get to use 95 per cent , be the current allocation on the Murray system , '' he say . 

Hay exporter meet export demand 
Northern Territory hay producer be take advantage of the drought across the rest of the country to meet export demand . 
Five container of hay be on their way to Korea and Japan . 
The Territory 's Agricultural Association spokesman , Mal Bishop , say transport cost have stop them develop an interstate market but there be strong interest in their tropical variety . 
`` This year be a really good year to be push it because of the dry season down south and in the eastern state , '' he say . 

Local govt rate will curb development : pastoralists 
Northern Territory pastoralists say they be worried about the prospect of have to pay local government rate from 2008 . 
All council will extend their jurisdiction to include cattle property , Aboriginal and mining land in less than 18 month . 
In the Barkly Tableland , Paul Zlotkowsky of Amungee Mungee Station say the introduction of rate will curb development . 
`` There 's talk that the whole of the area be go to be rat [ on ] Amungee Mungee , we use 600 square kilometre , the rest of the total area of 3,000 , '' he say . 
`` The rest of the area that be not yet develop be go to be rat . 

Ancient drought blame for megafauna destruction 
A group of researcher say a series of massive drought 40,000 year ago wipe out Australia 's megafauna . 
It have be previously think that over-hunting be to blame . 
Palaeontologist Dr Gilbert Price have dig up the fossil of giant kangaroo , emu and wombats the size of car in south-east Queensland . 
He say the remains show the population have be under stress because of dry condition , which could provide clue to help small wildlife specie today . 
`` There 's so many interesting ecological event that have occur in the past and these event be record in place like the Darling Downs in the fossil record , '' he say . 

Task force to examine AWB charge 
A day after Commissioner Terence Cole have hand down his final report into the activity of AWB in Iraq , 12 people be consult lawyer about their future . 
A special task force will investigate whether they should face criminal prosecution . 
Former chairman Trevor Flugge be among a group of people who Commissioner Cole have find should be far investigate for possible breach of the Crimes and Corporations Act . 
He be join by former manage director Murray Rogers and former chief financial officer Paul Ingleby . 
Also name be whistleblower Mark Emons and Dominic Hogan , executive Peter Geary , Michael Long , Nigel Officer and Michael Watson , and former in-house lawyer Jim Cooper . 
Charles Stott have be single out for his involvement in the smelly Tigris affair , involve BHP and a 20,000 tonne wheat shipment . 
Commissioner Cole have also recommend the Wheat Export Authority be give more power and more money to regulate AWB but he have leave AWB 's veto right and the future of the single desk to be sort by the Federal Government . 
Former AWB manage director Andrew Lindberg say he be relieve that the Cole inquiry have clear him of any wrongdoing . 
But he say it be a matter of great regret that kickback be pay to Iraq and he hop it do not lead to the dismantling of the single desk for export Australian wheat . 
`` Personally , I think that would be a great shame because I do believe it do provide a great benefit to Australia against heavily subsidise competition , particularly from the US and Europe , '' he say . 
`` I think it 's very important that we do n't throw the baby out with the bath water . '' 

Grains Council 
The Grains Council have warn the Federal Government not to use the Cole finding a an excuse to abolish the single desk for wheat export . 
The peak grain grower body say while it be shock by the report , the conduct of AWB can not be confuse with the grain marketing system . 
Chairman Murray Jones say farmer believe the single desk be the best marketing system available to them . 
`` We 've come out with six basic principle that be there and the key of that be ownership and control by grower , and I guess security of payment for pool participant , '' he say . 
`` There be six thing and they 're on our website . They be quite clear and the government 's very well aware of that . 

UN head alarm over Tonga violence 
The United Nations secretary-general Kofi Annan have express alarm about the recent violence in Tonga . 
A spokesman for Mr Annan say he urge the party in Tonga to persevere with inclusive national consultation to support the democratic reform process . 
Mr Annan have say he stand ready to help effort to foster a broad political consensus . 

Govt accuse of mishandle response to Cole report 
Two former diplomat say the Federal Government have mishandle it response to the kickback scandal , give an advantage to Australia 's international wheat trade competitor . 
Andrew Farran , now a trade policy consultant living in Victoria , say the damage to the monopoly wheat trader cause by the Cole inquiry have already cause farmer to lose wheat contract . 
Former Middle East diplomat Bruce Haigh , now farm in New South Wales , say wheat grower will be angry if they lose the single desk a a result of the inquiry . 
`` I mean the drought be already a huge burden that they 're have to cope with and if the single desk get lose , it 'll be an even big blow , '' he say . 
`` I can say from my conversation with wheat grower , that they 're very apprehensive and the potential there be for a lot of anger . '' 
Prime Minister John Howard say the Federal Government be still consider a range of option for the future of the wheat export marketing system but because of the Cole inquiry find the status quo can not remain . 
Mr Howard acknowledge there be division within Government , with the Nationals push to keep the single desk and some Liberals demand the removal of AWB 's monopoly . 
He say he will put forward recommendation to MPs next week but the solution decide on will be the best one for farmer . 
`` Any changed arrangement have to be one that work and have wide acceptability among Australian wheat grower , '' he say . 
`` Our main concern be to protect the interest of Australian wheat grower and I be determine that whatever arrangement come out of the discussion will protect the interest of Australian wheat grower . '' 
Meanwhile United States Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns have direct his department to again consider ban AWB 's United States subsidiary from his country 's export program in the wake of the Cole report . 
Mr Johanns acknowledge that the AWB have voluntarily agree last year to not participate in the US Department of Agriculture 's ( USDA ) export credit program but add that be pending the outcome of the Cole inquiry . 
Top USDA lawyer Marc Kesselman say Mr Johanns have order him to resume debarment proceeding against AWB . 
`` The Government can choose who it do business with and the Government usually choose to do business with people whom it think be trustworthy , who be not go to commit fraud with federal dollar , '' he say . 

Agriculture sector remain large water user 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics say agriculture be still the big sector user of water in Australia but consumption have fall by 23 per cent since 2001 . 
The new water report say farmer and the domestic sector have both respond to the drought , with householder reduce their water consumption by 8 per cent . 
Michael Vardon from the bureau say farmer have be particularly responsive to reduce water supply by plant less demand crop . 
`` Certainly cotton and rice be large user in 2002 to 2001 and they continue to be in 2004-2005 but the water use have decline , water use have decline substantially in those industry , '' he say . 

Goulburn win water-saving award 
The resident of one of Australia 's dry city have be recognise for their effort to conserve water . 
Goulburn in southern New South Wales have halve it domestic water usage under stage five water restriction over the past 18 month . 
Now the council have win a National Water Conservation Award for Excellence , ahead of 700 council from around the country . 
Goulburn-Mulwaree Mayor Paul Stephenson say the council be now apply for state funding to install a cover for the Pejar dam to reduce evaporation . 
`` It still allow the ultra-violet ray to get through to do the normal purification of your water , it reflect a lot of the heat , '' he say . 
`` Your blue-green algae problem start to dissipate and you stop all the wind action because these thing be moor up reasonably close together . 

Water authority offer job to farmer 
Victorian water authority be offer job to farmer under a special drought employment program . 
The Goulburn Broken Catchment Authority have work for 60 people who be either under-employed or unemployed due to drought or recent devastate frost in the Goulburn Valley . 
Coomboona beef farmer Ewen Mclean be hop to get pay for the fencing and weed control work he be plan to do on his graze licence along the Goulburn River . 

QCC take action against coal mine expansion 
An environmental group have take legal action against a coal mine in Queensland , want to make it responsible for any pollution it product cause . 
The Queensland Conservation Council ( QCC ) have lodge an official objection to an extension of the Xstrata-owned Newlands coal mine , about 130 kilometre west of Mackay . 
Spokesman Nigel Parratt say the company should invest in clean technology or plant tree to offset emission the extracted coal will produce . 
`` If it set a precedent , we 'd certainly like to see other high greenhouse gas - either emitter or user - follow suit , '' he say . 

NLIS work at major saleyards 
New figure show the National Livestock Identification System ( NLIS ) be work 99 per cent of the time at two of Queensland 's major saleyards at Roma and Dalby . 
The Australian Livestock and Property Agents Association say out of more than 650,000 head of cattle , less than 1 per cent either do not have electronic ear tag or have tag that be not read by scanner . 
Spokesman Roger Lyne be please with the figure but say he expect them to improve . 
`` As time go on people be learn how to put them in good , the application rate be much good and I think also the supplier or manufacturer of the tag be also get good at it , '' he say . 

Company secure $ 5m flour export contract 
A company form by six farm family in South Australia have secure a contract value at more than $ 5 million to export flour into India . 
Flinders Ranges Premium Grain will supply a frozen dough factory in northern India for the next three year , use grain grow on the shareholder ' farm at Orroroo in the State 's mid-north . 
Company chairman Peter Barrie say negotiation have be go on for the past 13 month . 
`` India be a land of contrast , it can be overwhelming , their business culture generally be different , '' he say . 

Vic farmer join Gore climate change campaign 
A Victorian farmer have join the campaign by former United States vice-president Al Gore to increase awareness about climate change . 
A group of 85 volunteer will set out across the country to display the slide see in Mr Gore 's documentary , An Inconvenient Truth . 
Goulburn Valley fruit grower John Pettigrew say his role be to make the presentation available to farmer . 
`` It 's a matter of get some Australian or some example that we 'd be more familiar with than some of the American example he have , '' he say . 
`` Most of u can see evidence there that we suspect be climate change . 

AWB to split 
AWB be plan to split the company in the wake of the Cole inquiry report . 
Chairman Brendan Stewart have also announce he will stand down , once the split be approve by shareholder . 
As expect , the embattled wheat exporter have propose to separate AWB International , which own the single desk licence and service provider AWB Limited to independent company . 
AWBi will be wholly grower-owned and manage the national pool , while AWBl will be list on the stock exchange and it service to AWBi will be decide in a new agreement to be vote on by shareholder at a February annual general meeting . 
Managing director Gordon Davis will also introduce a new executive team to run the company and AWBl 's Mr Stewart will stand down in a bid to improve the company 's governance . 
Meanwhile , BHP Billiton say an internal review into it involvement in the oil-for-food scandal have exonerate the company . 
The mining giant be implicate when the Cole Commission hear that BHP Petroleum have deliver a shipload of wheat to Iraq in 1996 , worth million of dollar . 
Chief executive Chip Goodyear say the internal review have reflect the Cole report find that there be no basis for adverse finding against the company . 
`` BHP and BHP Billiton act consistently with the UN sanction and Australian law , '' he say . 

AWB plan 'not a permanent solution ' 
The US wheat industry have reject AWB 's plan to split the company into two separate business . 
US Wheat Associates claim the AWB split into a grower-owned operator control export and a commercial agribusiness firm do not get rid of the single desk monopoly target by the US . 
`` We believe that any solution that leave a monopoly in place in Australia , Canada , wherever it be , no matter how you shuffle the box around or shift responsibility from one organisation to another , a monopoly be not a permanent solution , '' spokesman Steve Mercer say . 
Mr Mercer say if the new arrangement leave in place veto power over private export with a new organisation or Australia 's Wheat Export Authority it be still a monopoly and must be end . 
The Australian Grains Exporters Association be also critical of the split because it will not make the market contestable until next harvest . 
AWB will seek the approval of shareholder after it annual general meeting in February . 
But association spokesperson Alick Osborne say that be not good enough . 
`` If this get up at all , it wo n't be until the middle of next year which be far too late for grower , particularly those grower in Western Australia , who be try to make marketing decision for the wheat they produce this harvest and be not comfortable with the lack of choice be provide to them today , '' Mr Osborne say . 

Graincorp 's profit jump 
Eastern Australian bulk grain handler Graincorp have announce a full year after-tax profit of $ 39.5 million . 
The result be a whopping 193 per cent high than last year 's result . 
Managing director Tom Keene say the good outcome have allow the company to pay a dividend of 50 cent a share and pay off $ 55 million of debt . 
But with only 1.9 million tonne of grain currently in the system , he say the company be forecast a bleak 2007 . 
`` The outlook for the current year reflect the extensive drought condition [ and ] we have already provide guidance on our FY07 [ 2007 financial year ] of a loss of between $ 20 to $ 30 million , '' he say . 
`` As part of our strategy to manage this we continue to reduce our cost and focus on revenue improvement in a number of our business unit . '' 

Cattle processor in for rough ride : AMH chief 
One of the country 's big meat processor say meatworks in southern Australia could close due to fall cattle number . 
The chief executive of Australia Meat Holdings ( AMH ) , John Keir , have seize upon Meat and Livestock Australia figure that show slaughter rate could fall by as much a 800,000 head next year . 
Mr Keir say with too many abattoir and too few cattle , processor will face very tough time . 
`` I mean if we 're go to see a reduction in the herd and therefor a reduction in slaughter number there will be surplus capacity , '' he say . 

Drought and salt tolerant crop to be available sooner 
Farmers be set to receive new crop variety faster with two new plant research centre be set up in Adelaide and Canberra . 
The National Plant Phenomics Facility will adapt the late medical image technology to use on plant at the CSIRO in Canberra . 
In Adelaide , plant will be move around on conveyor belt and photograph in 3D a they grow . 
CSIRO Plant Industries chief Dr Jeremy Burdon say crop that be more drought and salt tolerant will be available sooner . 
`` We believe that this will lead to a major increase in the effort that we can apply and through that the speed which we can deliver to farmer important and new invaluable trait , '' he say . 
`` And those sort of trait be obviously those that be at the forefront of all our mind at present and believe will continue to be . 

Tax cut encourage for bio-industries growth 
There be a push in the Northern Territory for tax break to encourage the growth of bio-industries , which convert plant and animal material into commercial product . 
Pharmaceutical company be use bush tucker like the Indigenous plum gubinge because it be the world 's rich natural source of vitamin C . 
Dr Anna Lavelle of Australia 's Biotechnology Organisation say the Territory Government need to find way to help investor . 
`` People often want to invest in biotechnology but not at their own expense . One of the thing that I 'm go to be look at in the next 12 month along with government be to say , well what can we do to encourage investor ? '' Dr Lavelle say . 

El Nino may be benefit fishing , aquaculture 
El Nino weather system may have a bad name for bring drought to Australia but they might bring benefit for fishing and aquaculture . 
The interaction between weather system and the ocean will soon be track more closely , with the installation of high-tech monitoring equipment along the Australian coast . 
South Australian base oceanographer Dr John Middleton say the equipment will give a more accurate picture of the impact of El Nino system on marine life . 
`` The research I 've do to date suggest they can actually lead to more nutrient available to the food web and thus more productivity , '' he say . 

Bracks names new Agriculture Minister 
A former motor mechanic be set to become Victoria 's new Agriculture Minister . 
Premier Steve Bracks have announce a major shake-up of his Cabinet after his third term election win . 
Member for Ripon Joe Helper will be sworn-in to replace Bob Cameron , who move to the police portfolio . 
Mr Helper admit he have be give the role at a challenging time , a many farmer struggle with the drought . 
`` I 've certainly get a lot to learn , there 's no question about that , '' he say . 
`` I look forward to get out and listen to farm business , to farmer , to community and farming organisation . 

Murray cod fish moratorium under consideration 
Recreational fishing for murray cod in South Australia be under threat because of poor reproduction level and the drought . 
The State Government be look at a moratorium , worry that more people will catch more cod because of low river level . 
But recreational fisher Peter Teakle do not agree with a moratorium and say the cod fishing season should be shorten instead . 
`` I just think that we should show caution - how we be go to construct this moratorium ? '' he say . 

Ultra fine wool bale sell for seasonal record price 
A seasonal record have be set for an ultra fine bale of wool in Newcastle . 
The 12.4 micron micron bale from the New England area of New South Wales sell for 100,000 cent a kilogram greasy to an Italian weaver . 

Fishermen plead with consumer to buy local 
With Christmas less than a month away , Queensland fisherman have plead for consumer to buy local seafood over the holiday period . 
Mackay operator Ruth Amos be struggle to compete with cheap import product and be ask shopper to consider the origin of the seafood they buy . 
`` It 's not that much dearer and you be support local job , '' she say . 

Rudolph do a runner 
There be grave news from the Northern Territory about Christmas . 
It seem one of Santa 's reindeer might have get lose on Lakefield Station just south of Mataranka . 
Gary Riggs almost hit the animal while he be out on a bore run and say it be the first time he have ever see a deer in the bush . 
`` I think jingo I wish I have a camera , '' he say . 
`` Anyway I get home and I call a meeting , and it be all the kid and everyone who 's here and I say 'Santa 's in a bit of a flap at the moment , he 's a bit hot and bother ' . 

Govt seek to strike balance over chemical restriction 
The Federal Government be ask the public whether there should be tight restriction on around 80 chemical widely use in agriculture to try to prevent them be use by terrorist . 
Attorney-General Philip Ruddock say the Bali bombing show that terrorist be look for readily accessible chemical which be easy to use . 
Farmers be oppose the change regard chemical use in fertiliser , spray , grain fumigant and livestock production , say there be already industry restriction in place . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say the Government will try to strike a balance between security concern and the impact on farmer . 
`` High risk chemical be not so freely available a the public might think at present anyway , '' he say . 

Growers to fight import of NZ apple 
Australian apple grower will appeal against Biosecurity Australia 's decision to allow import from New Zealand . 
Under the recommendation , tough quarantine measure will be impose on import to stop the disease fire blight enter Australia . 
But the peak industry body say it 400 page submission on the plan be largely ignore . 
Apples and Pears Australia chairman Daryl Ashton say there should be additional inspection of orchard in New Zealand because the disease risk be too great . 
`` The level of protection , that 's the Government 's responsibility and we 'll be start to call on the Minister and in fact all parliamentarian to ensure that Australia 's level of protection be what it should be and not what Biosecurity Australia want it to be , '' Mr Ashton say . 
Under the new rule , apple import will still be ban in WA and the Tasmanian Government be consider impose it own ban . 
Primary Industry Minister David Llewellyn say import pose a serious risk to the Tasmanian industry . 
He say state quarantine regulation could be tighten in response to the import risk analysis . 
Meanwhile the New Zealand Government be consider take action through the World Trade Organisation if the new import risk analysis for apple becomes law . 
New Zealand Agriculture Minister Jim Anderton say the propose quarantine regime will be too expensive for grower and be base on trade protectionism rather than science . 
`` If we ca n't get the fact in the way of others ' prejudice , we 'll have to look at other action , and the WTO be the last resort , '' he say . 

ALP leadership ballot to clear the air : Beazley 
Federal Opposition agriculture spokesman Gavan O'Connor be among Labor MPs who may have to fight for their position during a party leadership ballot on Monday . 
Labor leader Kim Beazley have call the ballot amid renew speculation about his future . 
There have be talk about Mr O'Connor 's future since he lose Labor preselection for the Victorian seat of Corio earlier this year . 
Mr Beazley say he want Monday 's vote to include all position , so the frontbench be secure in the run to next year 's election . 

New plant to ensure supply of Q fever vaccine 
Supplies of the vaccine for Q fever have be secure with the Federal Government to fund a new manufacturing plant . 
The only manufacturer CSL have stop make the drug because it be no longer profitable . 
The Government will give CSL $ 9 million for the new plant , which be expect to start production in mid 2009 . 
But vice president of the Australian Veterinary Association , Dr Matthew Makin , say he want CSL to release detail of it contract arrangement with the Government . 
`` I guess we want a concrete guarantee that supply of this vaccine will not be interrupt a it have be in the past , so that we can ensure the safe health of those work in the agricultural sector , '' he say . 
`` That 's where we 've be for the last six month . Supply of the vaccine be run out and it have be ration , so theoretically people who should be receive it may not be receive it . '' 
Hunter Valley farmer Bev Adams , who have suffer from the disease , say the announcement be great news . 

Murray River inflows continue to be low 
November have be the fifth consecutive month of record low flow into the Murray River system . 
Only 50 gigalitres of water enter the system in the past month , compare to the average inflow of 800 gigalitres . 
Just 608 gigalitres have enter the system since June . 

Former AWB exec step down from SA company 
One of the men potentially face charge over the oil-for-food scandal have resign from South Australian company ABB Grain . 
Nigel Officer leave last Friday before the Cole report be table in Federal Parliament . 
Mr Officer , a former executive director of AWB , have leave ABB follow a management restructure . 
Industry analyst Malcolm Bartholomeaus say he be not surprise by the move . 
`` Nigel be one of the former executive who appear before the Cole Inquiry who do see the light of day at the end and turn to be one of the whistleblower , '' Mr Bartholomeaus say . 

Wheat competition with India expect to heat up 
Australia be set to have some strong competition in India , with the Indian Government predict a record domestic harvest . 
The world 's second-largest producer of grain be anticipate farmer will produce up to 80 million tonne , compare to last year 's 69 million . 
India be force to import wheat for the first time in six year on the back of last year 's poor crop . 

Farmers rush to sell off cattle 
Southern New South Wales and Victorian livestock market be overflow a farmer sell off their cattle . 
Producers say they can not hold onto cattle until after the Christmas break because of severe water restriction in the southern Riverina . 
Nicole Varley from the National Livestock Reporting Service say a a result market could resume early than usual next year . 
`` Everyone 's now talk whether or not they be go to go back straightaway after New Year 's or whether they 'll hold back , '' she say . 

Summit dispels perception of plentiful northern water 
A Darwin summit on water resource in northern Australia have be tell there be not an abundance of water to support development . 
Tropical river make up 70 per cent of Australia 's freshwater and there have be debate about whether southern farmer should be move north to escape drought . 
But the Northern Territory 's Environment Minister , Marion Scrymgour , say the common perception be wrong . 
`` We need to focus on that we have severe rainfall for five month of the year and then plan for the other seven month of the year when there be no rain , '' she say . 
`` And we have see the pattern over the last five year , where we have have a reduction in those rainfall pattern . '' 
`` So we ca n't become complacent , we have to change those attitude and we have to work together about how do we well educate the community . 

Wool price ease slightly 
Increases in the US exchange rate have not help the wool industry this week . 
Prices ease slightly - the eastern market indicator fall just one cent to 825 cent a kilogram . 
Demand be lead by China , with European buyer show keen interest in the Newcastle sale 
An Italian company set a seasonal record for an ultra fine bale of 12.4 micron wool this week , pay 100,000 cent a kilogram greasy . 

Scientists focus on shellfish to help research climate change 
New scientific research be focus on shellfish in an attempt to unlock the affect of human on the climate . 
A PhD student at the Australian National University be use oyster and mussel from Tasmania , Queensland and New South Wales to track change in salinity and temperature . 
Sarah Tynan say scientist around the world be start to do similar work . 
`` I 'm hop to add to the overall picture of climate change , '' she say . 

Bushfires spark concern for koala population 
Fears be hold for the big koala population in New South Wales , which be under threat from bushfires in the state 's north-west . 
The state 's new wildlife rescue service have travel today to the Pilliga region to assess the koala , with Taronga and Western Plains Zoo on standby to accept any injured animal . 

Japanese consul-general help mark rice crop anniversary 
The Japanese consul general have help to mark the 100th anniversary of Australia 's first rice crop . 
Shisei Kaku have unveil a memorial sign near Swan Hill in north-west Victoria . 
He say he be proud to commemorate the time when Japanese farmer Joe Takasuka first plant a crop on flood prone land on the Murray River . 

Dairy farmer attitude to environment change 
A new survey have reveal a noticeable change in Australian dairy farmer ' attitude towards the environment . 
More than 1,200 dairy farmer be ask about their natural resource management practice and the result show producer be consider their impact on the wider community . 
Dairy Australia 's Cathy Phelps say while most farmer acknowledge there be room for improvement , they be commit to protect the environment . 
`` It 's partly about have that social license to farm and ensure that the industry be well accept in the community , '' she say . 
`` I think it 's also the fact that the industry have take a lead role in drive these program and ensure that they 're farmer lead . 

Senator confident of support for PM 's wheat export model 
An influential Liberal senator say he be confident the Prime Minister will put forward a model for the future of wheat export marketing which most government politician and wheat grower will be able to support . 
New South Wales Senator Bill Heffernan say no government politician be call for the complete scrapping of the single desk . 
Senator Heffernan say the model will retain the advantage for wheat grower that have a single desk give them in a world market distort by different trade barrier and subsidy . 
`` While Australia 's wheat farmer to some extent have be betray by the past , we 've get to look to the future and offer opportunity that open up the market to grower and not necessarily to punter , carpetbagger and wheat trader , '' he say . 

Grain storage 
Meanwhile unusually high level of grain be in storage around the country . 
The late Australian Bureau of Statistics ( ABS ) figure show more than 13 million tonne of wheat , barley and other feed grain be currently hold by bulk storage company and grain handler . 
Karen Connaughton from the ABS say the number be boost from last year 's bumper harvest . 
`` This be the first time that we 've do this collection since December 2004 so we have no previous data to compare with , '' she say . 
`` But what people need to remember be that the 2005-06 harvest be almost a record high harvest . 

Rudd win Labor leadership 
The new federal Labor frontbench will not be decide until Thursday after the appointment of new Opposition Leader Kevin Rudd this morning . 
Mr Rudd defeat Kim Beazley by 10 vote to take out the ballot , 49-39 . 

Canadian canola a slap in the face for Aust farmer : Greenpeace 
Greenpeace say a shipment of Canadian canola which arrive in Newcastle yesterday be a slap in the face for Australian farmer . 
The environmental group be appeal to the major supermarket and food processor not to use the genetically modify ( GM ) canola , import by grain trader Cargill . 
Spokeswoman Louise Sales say consumer do not want to eat GM food and the big food chain should respect their wish . 
`` [ We need ] to build consumer pressure to make company like Woolworths and Coles refuse to take the shipment , '' she say . 
`` If you look at the figure and the predicted canola crop [ it be ] 400,000 tonne and domestic demand be only 100,000 to 115,000 tonne , so we 've get ample supply to meet domestic demand . '' 

Historic cattle property sell for $ 27m 
One of Australia 's most historic cattle property have be sell for a reported $ 27 million . 
Goonoo Goonoo be establish under an 1833 grant from King George IV to the Australian Agricultural Company . 
The 5,400 hectare farm near Tamworth , in New South Wales , be own by the Colonial Agricultural Fund , which be buy out by central Queensland cattleman Peter Hughes and partner Bill Scott earlier this year . 
It have now be sell to the Macquarie Goodman Group . 
Mr Hughes have also sell the Trevenna Downs aggregation near Goondiwindi and say the property do not suit his focus on the northern cattle industry . 
`` It do n't fit with the operation we be deal with in north and central Queensland , '' he say . 
`` In a big pastoral situation I find the economy of scale be not there . 
`` They be wonderful family place , very good for family and private individual . 
`` When you get into the big scale , you have get to employ whatever you have get to employ to make those big place run . 

Dalby stock horse sale fetch record price 
Records have be break at Australia 's big stock horse sale in southern Queensland . 
New record be set for all category at the annual Dalby sale with the high price of $ 70,000 pay for a mare by well-known sire Warrenbri Romeo . 
That be $ 5,000 high than last year 's record price and livestock agent Mick Cuskelly say the sale make nearly $ 2 million altogether . 
`` We 're a little bit back in number which you always get in these tough season and we have quite a few withdrawal before the sale , a few people could n't make it , could n't get away form their property with the drought in the country , '' he say . 

Stock Horse Society set to open US branch 
The Australian stock horse be on the verge of make it big overseas . 
The Stock Horse Society expect to open a branch in the United States next year to target Australia 's big grow market for the stock horse . 
Society spokesman Cooper Wright say the Americans want to become more involved in the breed . 

Lamb slaughter level reach 25 year high 
Lamb slaughter number be at their high level in more than 25 year . 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics ( ABS ) say total sheep and lamb slaughter number have rise for the tenth consecutive month to more than 3.2 million . 
Mutton production be also up . 
Nigel Gibson from the ABS say the figure reflect the impact of the drought . 
`` We have 1.7 million lamb process for the month which be around 200,000 more for the same month than the four or five previous year , '' he say . 
`` [ It be a ] very much high figure than what we 'd normally expect to see . 

Calf sale hold early 
The drought have force Victoria 's annual new year weaner calf sale to be hold early than usual . 
The sale usually allow breeder to present their best beef cattle to buyer from across Victoria and New South Wales . 
More than 2,000 cattle be sell in Wangaratta on Friday , with a pen of 20 angus steer make the top price of $ 460 each . 
Farmers say they be pleasantly surprise with price pay . 
Robin Gibb from Milawa say the big steer make over $ 400 and the small draft sell for just under . 
`` They be good than I expect on the day and the condition actually , '' he say . 
Graham Batten from Moyhu sell two pen of steer and say he be `` more than happy '' . 

Dairy Australia appoints drought coordinator to help farmer 
Dairy Australia be take further measure to ensure farmer be look after during the drought . 
In Victoria , local drought coordinator have be appoint to help troubled farmer connect to drought relief and financial service . 
Gippsland coordinator John Hutchison say it be another way of farmer help each other out . 
`` I think Dairy Australia be try to be proactive and be see by the dairy community that they be actually understand the difficulty that farmer be under , '' he say . 

Red meat producer warn about white meat threat 
Red meat producer be be warn that their big overseas competition might not be from traditional export rival Brazil and the United States . 
Jeff Grant , chairman of Meat and Wool New Zealand , say producer be face a big threat from pork , poultry and fish . 
He say consumer in develop nation be change their diet to include more protein but white meat could become their first choice . 
`` That shift in term of their diet mean that for beef or milk in the dairy industry have a very good potential go forward , '' he say . 

Qld mandarins to be supply at Beijing Olympics 
Mandarins from Queensland will be serve during the 2008 Beijing Olympics . 
The export win come just month after the first shipment of honey murcott mandarin be send to China under strict new quarantine protocol . 
It be welcome news for grower who lose fruit in recent hail storm . 
But Graham McCosker from the grower co-operative , Gayndah Packers , say the big challenge will be meeting demand . 
`` It 's just astronomical , we just come back from China a few month ago , we meet a buyer from Beijing , '' he say . 
`` She be very interested , she say , 'I will buy , I will buy ' [ and ] she say , 'I would like to take 300-500 container per year ' , '' he say . 

China deal save woollen mill 
After face an uncertain future 18 month ago , a century-old Tasmanian woollen mill be make a comeback . 
Launceston 's Waverley Woollen Mill have be under administration with debt of more than $ 1.5 million . 
But the new manager have strike a deal to sell premium woollen blanket to China . 
Managing director Bruce Grant say the company have have to look beyond domestic market . 
`` So we have to investigate opportunity overseas and we have be gradually have small shipment to various overseas country , '' he say . 

German fan club raise RFDS fund 
A German-based fan club of the 1980s TV series , The Flying Doctors , have raise $ 25,000 for the real Royal Flying Doctor Service ( RFDS ) . 
The German RFDS fan club begin 11 year ago after member fell in love with the series which be still screen in Europe . 
President Renate Kaldenhoff say money be raise through membership and sell photograph sign by the star of the show . 
`` It must be nearly 25,000 , I always say my fan be really great , '' she say . 

Barley single desk marketing system abolish in SA 
After 10 year of operation , South Australia 's single desk marketing system for barley will be abolish . 
Despite a majority of South Australian grower support a single desk in a open ballot conduct earlier this year , the decision have be overturn . 
Barley marketing will be oversee by an independent authority know a the Essential Services Commission over the next three year . 
After that , the market will be completely deregulate . 
This have be the result of a four month review , push by the State Government which have be deny national competition payment of up to $ 9 million in the last three year due to lack of competition . 

Winter crop harvest down 60pc : ABARE 
The late prediction from the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) show the nation 's winter crop harvest be 60 per cent down on last year . 
With the driest August to October period since 1900 , ABARE be also warn summer planting will suffer , particularly rice and cotton . 
Chief commodity analyst Dr Terry Sheals say any grain and fodder stock hold on farm will become increasingly important . 
`` I would expect the winter grain harvest , a lot of that harvest will be hold on farm in those area worst affect by the drought , '' he say . 
`` The report confirm the seriousness of the situation . 
`` We be look at the low winter grain crop in 10 year , since the 1994-95 drought to be precise . 
`` The crop 's estimate to be about 15.5 million tonne . '' 
Meanwhile a expect , drought condition have intensify across eastern and southern Australia . 
The National Climate Centre say there have be a distinct turn for the bad since August , due to the lack of late winter and spring rain . 

Destructive aphid find in Yarra Valley 
The destructive phylloxera aphid have be find for the first time in Victoria 's prestigious Yarra Valley wine region . 
Until now the aphid , which attack the root of vine and cause them to die , have be restrict to the state 's north-east . 
A small vineyard have be quarantine and neighbour property warn about the outbreak . 
Dr Patrick Sharkey from the Department of Primary Industries say he be hopeful phylloxera will not spread into the big wine region in the state 's west . 
`` We 've actually put special control area in there to stop vine and bin , and machinery move in there without cleaning , '' he say . 
`` That , along with the soil type which be not conducive to the spread of phylloxera , have help keep those vineyard free . 

Authorities inspect commercial banana farm 
Authorities be inspect commercial banana farm in northern New South Wales today after the discovery of the disease 'bunchy top ' north of Lismore . 
The disease have not be see in the Richmond Valley since it be eradicate in the 1970s . 
A commercial grower find the disease on his farm last week . 

Academic suggest water allocation for city resident 
There be a call today for government to consider water allocation for city dweller and business . 
Mike Young , a professor at the University of Adelaide , say there should be a minimum supply of water that be cheap and protect , with extra water available to everyone on an open market . 
Professor Young say the move would drive up water price during drought reduce shortage and generate more money for water infrastructure , desalination and recycle project . 
`` If we start have high price in urban area then they 'll start actually make the water that they need themselves and actually recycle and do all those other thing , '' he say . 

Group seek to inform Indigenous community about NWI 
A new group want to help remote Aboriginal community to learn more about the National Water Initiative ( NWI ) . 
The Indigenous Water Policy Group want to break down barrier by translate policy into traditional language . 
Executive officer Joe Morrison say remote community be still largely unaware of the implication of water trading and native title right regard water . 
`` We think that the native title process and the NWI only talk about customary use , and customary use a be for non-commercial purpose , '' he say . 

Woolworths to pay more for beef in WA 
Woolworths say it will lift the price it pay for beef in Western Australia to help farmer through the drought . 
Prices pay to Western Australian supplier will increase by a minimum of two cent a kilogram . 
The supermarket chain have deny the increase be link to an investigation by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission into meat price . 
Tim D'arcy from the Pastoralists and Graziers Association say it be a welcome step . 
`` It 's a very minimal increase , '' he say . 

Hay reserve for drought assistance stolen 
Hay to fee livestock on drought-affected farm in Victoria have be steal . 
Melbourne Water be cut grass in it reserve to help to send to farmer in drought-declared area and be plan to donate around 700 round bale . 
Victorian Farmers Federation drought coordinator Brenda McLachlan say thief have take hay worth $ 10,000 that have be cut and leave to dry . 
`` The hay be allocate to needy farmer and so it be very disappointing for u , '' she say . 

Plantation timber company offer agistment , water access to farmer 
Plantation timber company be open their gate to assist farmer in drought-stricken area , offer cheap agistment and access to stored water . 
Across southern South Australia and western Victoria , bluegum plantation company Timbercorp be allow farmer to pump water from dam to water livestock . 
And Great Southern Plantations have offer low rate for agisting sheep amid it bluegums . 
Spokesman David Ikin say the company benefit as well . 
`` The sheep feed on grass and so forth that be grow between the tree keep down the undergrowth , '' he say . 
`` [ It be ] obviously from the farmer ' point of view , a valuable source of feed through what 's be a tough time . 
`` We 've get about 30,000 sheep altogether now graze on our property . 

Horticulturalists fear loophole in proposed code of conduct 
Sections of the horticulture industry say they still have concern about the mandatory code of conduct due to be table in Federal Parliament . 
The code be design to improve transparency between grower and wholesaler but Ian Hay from Cherrygrowers of Australia say many producer have not have a chance to see the draft legislation . 
He say many be worried that there will be too many loophole for buyer operate outside the central market . 
`` The hard part be that when thing get table in Parliament they can quite easily become law and we have no recourse to change it , '' he say . 

Rain hamper blueberry harvest 
Australia 's major blueberry produce area on the north coast of New South Wales be battle the problem of too much rain during harvest . 
Cool and wet condition have interrupt picking and one producer say his crop be down 20 per cent on forecast production . 
Ridley Bell from Mountain Blue Orchards near Lismore say fruit rot be a problem in the wet . 
`` We have one period there of nine day when we could n't get in to pick because of rain and the fruit start to go soft and you have a problem a to know whether to pick that fruit , '' he say . 

'Slots ' may accelerate fire , say researcher 
A bushfire researcher say slot or super dry air which reach the earth 's surface from a high altitude may have accelerate some of Australia 's bad fire . 
Dr Graham Mills be investigate the phenomenon in relation to the fatal bushfire on South Australia 's Eyre Peninsula in 2005 and the Canberra fire of 2003 . 
He say satellite imagery have reveal a dry slot move towards Canberra on the day the blaze hit the city . 
`` My hope would be that we would have some hour of warn for at least some of these event , '' he say . 

Australian cattle trade campaign under way in Indonesia 
A big push be under way to step up the live cattle trade between northern Australia and Asia . 
Meat and Livestock Australia ( MLA ) be run a major campaign in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta this month , fund by the cattle transaction levy . 
Spokesman Mike Hayward say 30 supermarket will feature cooking demonstration , recipe card and giveaway . 
`` Overall , sale will increase from around about the 650 mark ( 650,000 cattle ) up to over 750,000-800,000 head , '' he say . 
`` Probably in the five year period , back up towards 1 million ( cattle export ) . 
`` I think it 's ten of year , you know there 's 200 odd million people up here , it 's a grow economy , people be aspire to get out of the wet market into the modern retailer , into the mall . 

Wheat export change may compromise national pool : AWB 
Wheat exporter AWB say a lack of clarity in the Federal Government 's change to the wheat export system could compromise the national pool . 
In the wake of the Cole inquiry , the Government will take control of AWB 's veto power over wheat export for six month while it discuss the future of the single desk . 
AWB say the change will prevent the company from forecast future earnings . 
Managing director Gordon Davis say he will meet with Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran to discuss the impact on grower who have already deliver wheat to the national pool . 
`` Under the previous obligation , AWBI have the ability to veto export if it consider they be n't in the interest of the national pool , '' he say . 
`` In these transitional arrangement , the Minister will have an obligation to make decision in the public interest . 
`` The arrangement be very complex a they currently be and there 's a range of interest that need to be satisfy in any discussion . '' 

Vaile 
Deputy Prime Minister Mark Vaile say the Government will not allow Australian wheat export to compete against each other in overseas market . 
The Government will decide which company be allow to export wheat for the next six month , but AWB will not have to apply for an export permit . 
Mr Vaile want the Government to gauge the view of grain grower organisation and wheat farmer before any decision be make on the future of the export system . 
`` We initially need to have a discussion with those group to draw together the point of view to probably develop an option paper go forward , then that need to be broadly discuss across the industry , '' he say . 
`` I think that at a point in this process the best thing that we can do a a Government be communicate directly with grower . '' 

WA grower 
Meanwhile the decision to remove AWB 's veto be expect to have the big impact on Western Australian grower , with many warehouse their wheat this harvest . 
But grower in the west have mix feeling . 
`` I think it be a good decision because there be a stalemate and I think it 'll be beneficial to WA wheat grower , the one that have warehouse their wheat , '' one grower say . 
`` It also give protection to the farmer who have deliver into the pool . '' 
`` Stripping the right of veto from the AWB this year , in an exceptional drought year and give to Mr McGauran could be fraught with danger , '' another grower say . 
`` Before I allocate my wheat I want to know that CBH ( Co-operative Bulk Handling ) have get a realistic chance of extract a $ 20 or $ 30 a tonne premium , '' a third wheat grower say . 
`` If they have , well then that 's probably where the wheat will go . 
`` It 's just on a price thing , there 's no loyalty leave , I do n't think . '' 

CBH to renew export application 
The Government 's decision have open the door for the CBH group to re-submit a rejected application to export wheat . 
Four bid by the WA-based grain handler to send wheat to it mill in Asia have be veto by AWB in the past two year . 
CBH chief executive Imre Mencshelyi say the company be likely to make a new attempt within day . 
`` I think it be a significant first step in the change environment that we currently find ourselves in , it be our intention to re-submit our application to export 2 million tonne of wheat to our flour mill in Asia , '' he say . 
`` Once the guideline and detail of the new power of veto become clear , I think that 's important for u to understand exactly what [ the ] Government mean by this decision . '' 

Graincorp welcome AWB change 
In the east , Graincorp chairman Don Taylor have welcome the change , but say he ultimately want the single desk open up to competition . 
`` I think there be an opportunity for east coast grower to benefit from those change , but it depend on the market circumstance at the particular time , '' he say . 

Barley grower divide over market deregulation 
Barley grower in South Australia be at odds over plan to deregulate the state 's barley market . 
A review have recommend the single desk hold by ABB Grain be phase out over the next three year , despite a ballot of grower show overwhelming support for the current system . 
Talkback caller to the ABC have be mix in their response . 
`` I just ca n't comprehend that concept , I think we 're in for a big loss with our barley industry if this new concept go ahead , '' one caller say . 
`` Well what a big day , December 5 , 2006 , the end of the stupid single desk for barley in South Australia , '' another caller say . 

NFF back call for climate change action 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) have join call for early action to tackle climate change . 
Members of the NFF 's policy council have vote to become part of the Australian Business Roundtable on Climate Change . 
President David Crombie say the nation 's farming body need to involve in effort to address climate change because of the impact it will have on agriculture . 
His call come a the Federal Government confirm that Australia 's greenhouse gas emission be set to rise by 22 per cent by 2020 . 
The bleak news be contain in it State of the Environment report , release today in Canberra . 
The report also confirm there have be five year of low than average rainfall across most of eastern Australia and that Perth 's water supply catchment be yield half a much water a they do in the 70 . 
Committee chairman Associate Professor Bob Beeton say thing will get bad before they get well . 
`` Some of the heritage property may decline , some biodiversity may decline , river health may continue at a very low level and the CO2 level obviously continue to increase , '' he say . 
`` The amount of energy use in Australia be still increase and we need to figure out what we 're go to do about that . '' 
Meanwhile , the energy sector say managing climate change will be it great challenge for the next few decade . 
The Energy Futures Forum have release a report which say future investment will hinge of the industry 's response to climate change . 
But forum member Tony Wood say develop country will have to make an effort as well . 
`` No-one would suggest that Australia should act unilaterally forever , '' he say . 
`` ( A ) we would just damage our own economy and ( b ) , we would n't solve the problem of climate change anyway , so there 's no doubt we require a global solution . 

Labor senator predict to take agriculture post 
Labor 's outgoing agriculture spokesman expect Tasmanian Senator Kerry O'Brien to be the frontrunner for the portfolio . 
Gavan O'Connor have agree to step down after the appointment of Kevin Rudd to the party leadership . 
A frontbench ballot will be hold tomorrow and Mr O'Connor say there be several candidate with experience in agriculture . 
`` Senator O'Brien have be a participant in the Senate Rural and Regional Affairs Committee over a long period of time and know many of the key player in the industry and others , '' he say . 

Meatworks struggle to cope with livestock influx 
Meatworks in northern Tasmania be work overtime to cope with a big influx of livestock due to the dry condition . 
Tasmanian Quality Meats spokesman Brian Oliver at Cressy say farmer be become increasingly desperate to get rid of stock . 
The small plant be process 2,500 sheep and 2,000 lamb a week and Mr Oliver say there be at least a month-long wait to get stock through . 
`` We be just struggle to keep in front , we be work six day a week and we be just look at put in an afternoon shift in the boning room to try and move some more number , '' he say . 

Green light give to saleyards development 
After year of delay , the Western Australian Government have give the go-ahead to a major development to replace the ageing Midland saleyards on Perth 's outskirt . 
The livestock industry have be frustrate by the delay and cost blow-outs for the propose Muchea yard . 
Although there be still no clear time frame or cost estimate , industry representative Malcolm Edward say he be pleased to hear it be head in the right direction . 
`` In the past I think industry be concern about replace Midland , but know that the other regional centre need upgrading or replacing , it have be the wish that we 'd get a total approach to the whole thing , '' he say . 

Territory pastoralists hopeful of receive drought assistance 
There be new hope that drought-hit pastoralists in the Northern Territory will receive federal assistance . 
The Northern Territory Cattlemen 's Association and the Territory Minister for Primary Industry Chris Natt have meet with Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran to seek help . 
Association president Roy Chisholm say although they have be knock back twice , he be hopeful that southern producer will receive exceptional circumstance aid . 
`` Now there be a slightly different criterion , '' he say . 

Centenarian maintains enthusiasm for farm life 
She may be about to celebrate her 100th birthday but the Hunter Valley 's Harriet Madden have not lose her enthusiasm for farm life . 
For most of her life , Mrs Madden have be a dairy farmer with her late brother Len . 
Despite endure tough time and drought , Mrs Madden say she be now enviously eye off a farm that be for sale next door . 
`` And if I have my way , if I have the money , I 'd buy that now , '' she say . 
`` They only want $ 3,000 for it , it 's a bit much when you 're on the pension . 

NASA see evidence suggest liquid water on Mars 
Images take by NASA 's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft suggest the presence of liquid water on the Martian surface . 
It be a tantalising find for scientist wonder if the Red Planet ever have harbour life . 
The orbit US spacecraft allow scientist to detect change in the wall of two Martian crater that may have be cause by the recent flow of water , a team of researcher say in a paper appear in the journal Science . 
Scientists previously have establish that two form of water - ice at the pole and water vapour - exist on Mars , but liquid water be crucial to nurture life . 
The scientist compare image of the Martian surface take seven year apart and find the existence of 20 newly form crater cause by impact from space debris as well a the evidence suggest liquid water trickle down crater wall . 
`` These observation give the strong evidence to date that water still flow occasionally on the surface of Mars , '' Michael Meyer , lead scientist for NASA 's Mars Exploration Program , say in a statement . 
The paper say water seem to have flow down two gully in the past few year , even though liquid water can not remain long on the planet 's frigid , nearly airless surface because it would rapidly freeze or evaporate . 
This seem to support the notion that liquid water may exist close enough to the planet 's surface in some place that it can seep out from time to time . 
The scientist propose that water could remain in liquid form long enough on the surface to transport debris before freezing . 
The two bright new deposit be each several hundred metre long . 
They cite a possible alternative explanation that these feature be cause by movement of dry dust down a slope . 

Life on Mars ? 
Scientists long have wonder whether life ever exist on Mars . 
Liquid water be an important part of the equation . On Earth , all form of life require water to survive . 
Among the planet in our solar system , only Earth have a more hospitable climate than Mars , and some scientist suspect Mars once shelter primitive , bacteria-like organism . 
Previous mission find evidence the Red Planet at one time boast ample quantity of water , and the question be whether liquid water be still present . 
`` As with many discovery , the possibility that liquid water may be come to the surface of Mars today pose many question , '' the scientist say . 
`` Where be the water come from ? How be it be maintain in liquid form give the present and most likely past environment ? How widespread be the water ? '' 
They also wonder whether the water could be use a a resource for future mission to explore Mars . 
The two site be inside crater in the Terra Sirenum and the Centauri Montes region of southern Mars . 
`` The shape of these deposit be what you would expect to see if the material be carry by flow water , '' Michael Malin , lead author of the paper , say . 
`` They have finger-like branch at the downhill end and easily divert around small obstacle . '' 
The researcher first report the discovery of the gully in 2000 , but this be the first time they have reveal the presence of newly deposit material seemingly carry by liquid water . 
Last month , NASA say the Mars Global Surveyor mission appear to be at an end , say it have lose contact after a decade-long mission in which it map the surface of Mars , track it climate and search for evidence of water . 

WA fisher welcome new illegal fishing law 
The fishing industry in Western Australia have welcome new law to toughen the nation 's defence against illegal fishing . 
The Royal Australian Navy have be give permission to shoot at uncooperative illegal fishing vessel to disable engine or rudder but not sink them . 
Kimberley Professional Fishing Association spokesman Alan Fraser believe it will be a good deterrent . 
`` There 's be a lot of talk of action be take and money and resource be expend on try to solve this problem , but really up until now our effort have be pretty dismal , '' he say . 

Core cattle breed stock number fall 
The New South Wales Opposition say core cattle breed stock level have fall by 65 per cent due to the drought . 
Opposition primary industry spokesman Duncan Gay claim it could take five year to rebuild stock level . 
North-west stock agent Dick Cameron say some producer have already lose all of their breeding stock and may never recover . 
`` Some people have run out of heart , some have run out of money and some have run out of both , '' he say . 

US citrus export price skyrocket 
Citrus export to the United States this year have attract some of their high price in year . 
Exports of navel orange be down 33 per cent on the initial forecast due to severe frost damage , with 1.4 million carton ship . 
Greg Nelson from DNE World Fruit Sales say quality have be a factor in the good price . 
`` We really applaud the effort of the grower , the packer , the quality control inspector in Australia because the condition of the fruit be excellent , '' he say . 

Chiquita takeover stall 
A takeover bid for the major food processor and wholesaler Chiquita Brands South Pacific have be stall . 
Tradefresh , a joint venture between Timbercorp and the Cost Group , have manage to acquire control of the company with 78 per cent ownership . 
But plan to de-list the company from the stock exchange can not go ahead because investment company MMC Contrarian be not likely to sell it 12 per cent stake . 
Tradefresh and Chiquita chairman Robert Costa say he be disappoint at MMC 's stance . 
`` Our original intention be to secure 100 per cent of the company , that 's still our intention , '' he say . 
`` Now we know that 's not go to happen in the short term because we have a significant shareholder in MMC , who at this stage be not sell and that 's their prerogative . '' 
Chiquita have interest in the blueberry , banana , mushroom and citrus sector . 

US beef industry suspicious about bone chip find 
The US Agriculture Department want to examine bone chip that South Korea claim it find in two reject shipment of American beef . 
The US industry be suspicious about where the fragment come from . 
US beef industry source argue the tiny bone the Koreans claim they find , which cause them to reject the US shipment , may not have be from animal the same age a the beef . 
United States Department of Agriculture Deputy Under-Secretary Chuck Lambert be not ignore the possibility that the shipment may have be tamper with . 
`` We 've ask to have the bone chip return , some people have suggest DNA sampling or other mean of try to determine the origin of those bone chip , '' he say . 
The late suspicion threaten to raise the US-Korea beef dispute to a new level after Korea earlier this year agree to reopen it market follow a 2003 US mad cow case . 

Study to investigate irrigation scheme 
The Tasmanian Government be look at build the state 's big irrigation scheme . 
A study will look at the possibility of divert water use for hydro electricity to farmer in some of the dry part of the state . 
Farmer Richard Gardiner say power generation should no longer be the only use for the water . 
`` If you look at the state of water availability in the whole country and you look at the fact that there 's 2,000 odd megalitres a day earn $ 10 a megalitres , I think there be no other way we can go into the future , '' he say . 

Company defend GM canola import 
The importer of Australia 's first shipment of genetically modify ( GM ) canola say it have no choice but to buy in grain because of fall domestic production . 
Three Greenpeace protester have be arrest at the Port of Newcastle yesterday a they try to block 57,000 tonne of Canadian canola be offload . 
The grain will be process in Newcastle and sell to unnamed buyer in the oilseed and biodiesel industry . 
Cargill Australia importer Robert Green say crop level in the eastern state have be dramatically reduce . 
`` The current industry estimate that the crop 's only be an odd 160,000 tonne in the eastern state , versus an east coast demand of over 500,000 tonne of seed , '' he say . 

Milk production expect to drop 
The dairy industry be expect a big drop in milk production next year a farmer struggle to meet high feed price , particularly in non drought-declared area . 
Although milk processor be negotiate well farm gate price and offer interest free loan , farmer be have major problem secure reliable feed delivery . 
Dairy consultant Bill Naughtin say some farmer be not milk as much . 
`` I have hear on the grapevine that some people have decide to go once a day in an effort to reduce water use , but most people I have speak to have a plan in place to fee their animal , '' he say . 
`` The principal concern at the moment be where be they go to get the money to pay for the feed and how be they go to access feed that 's reasonable quality and reliable . '' 

Pressure 
Dry condition in Tasmania be put pressure on farmer who have be agisting dairy cow for their Victorian colleague . 
Worsening seasonal condition be make it hard for farmer to help , but farmer Greg Hall say they be do their best . 
`` When we agree to take an extra 100 or so heifer that be some six week ago because there be quite a bit of rough weather on Bass Strait it take some time to get them over , '' he say . 

Drought to impact on farm income 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics ( ABS ) say farm income be predict to fall this financial year because of the drought . 
It say farm GDP be to drop by 16 per cent and agricultural export be likely to fall 14 per cent . 
The ABS figure be confirm what farmer be see in the paddock a their income be drop , while the cost of their input be stay the same or rise if they be feed expensive grain to animal . 
Meanwhile peak farm group in the eastern state have form a Recovery Alliance to look at how the agriculture sector will rebuild after the drought . 
The group will chase further funding from the Federal Government to help farmer buy seed , fertiliser and maintain core breeding stock . 
New South Wales Farmers president Jock Laurie say the situation be dire for all rural community , not just farmer . 
`` If we get into a situation where people out there actually reduce their cropping by half , then obviously that 's the income halve for a lot of those small business , '' he say . 
`` In circumstance like these , what we 're aim to do be to try to make sure we get as much money flow through agriculture , which then flow straight back in through those small community - that will keep those small community go , business go . 
`` The thing about this be that it 's a way to help the whole region , the whole community , not just individual farmer . '' 

Local community lose out 
The economic impact of the drought be hit home in one small community in southern New South Wales . 
The Temora Shire Council say many local grain grower have not harvest a crop this year , cost the region about $ 100 million in lost income . 
Mayor Peter Speirs say when farmer stop spending , the whole town suffers . 
`` It will be very hard for some of our business , there will probably be rationalisation of staff in some area , '' he say . 

Fires begin to merge a wind shift 
Fire authority in Victoria be warn that 600,000 hectare of Alpine country in the state 's north and south-east could be on fire by the weekend . 
Fires spark by lightning strike earlier this week be merge a wind shift . 
Temperatures be set to climb into the high 30 on Saturday , along with predicted hot northerly wind . 
Bairnsdale district cattle grazier Frank O'Connor say all farmer can do be renew fire break , check water supply and pack personal belonging . 
`` We 've go through our family photograph and thing that connect you to your ancestor and so forth , they 've all be put in a bag , '' he say . 

Opposition urge change to croc law 
The Queensland Opposition be call for legislative change relate to capture crocodile and harvest wild crocodile egg . 
Under the current system , the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) be responsible for the capture of problem crocodile . 
But the Oppositions environment spokeswoman Rosemary Menkins say with an increase number of crocs , more people need to help . 
`` Our suggestion be - which be be ask for by the farmer - be to allow register crocodile farmer to actually capture and relocate the problem animal , '' she say . 
`` Secondly , a change in government policy that will allow the commercial harvest of wild crocodile egg , of course under strict guideline . '' 

GM canola shipment contaminate : AQIS 
The Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) have confirm a 57,000 tonne shipment of import genetically-modified ( GM ) canola be contaminate with Canadian barley and weed . 
The shipment arrive at the Port of Newcastle this week . 
It will be process in Newcastle into protein meal and vegetable oil , and sell to the food and biodiesel industry . 
National manager for Plant Programs at AQIS Peter Liehne say it be common for bulk commodity to contain other material . 
`` In this case we find that there be some seed present in the shipment which have sufficient concern for u to look at the management of the product to ensure there be no risk to the environment result from these weed seed , '' he say . 

ABS revise grain storage figure 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics ( ABS ) have be force to re-release figure on the amount of grain in storage after the industry question the statistic . 
Earlier this week , the ABS say bulk grain handle company have more than 13 million tonne of grain in stock , include 10 million tonne of wheat . 
The revised figure show a drop to 10 million tonne in storage overall , with wheat make up around 7 million . 
The bureau 's Karen Connaughton say there be a number of reason for the change . 
`` We have n't undertake this collection since December 2004 so it be quite difficult for u to verify the benchmark figure , '' she say . 
`` We do make some effort to verify the figure and we get some broad parameter from people , and it appear that the estimate we provide be too high . '' 

AWB wheat export veto law pass 
The Federal Parliament have pass law strip AWB of it wheat export veto , hand it to Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran for six month . 
Mr McGauran tell Parliament the move would give certainty to wheat grower , particularly in Western Australia , provide a range of option for sell their wheat . 

Gold price continue to climb 
The gold price continue to climb on the back of a weak US dollar and there be even prediction the price could reach $ US700 by Christmas . 
Gold be once again be tout a the currency of choice on international market a the US dollar continue to weaken . 
Compounding that effect be the global instability generate by Iran 's desire to develop nuclear weapon and a move away from the greenback by that country as well a China . 
China have announce it will start hold euro in preference to US dollar . 
That have bring the bullish prediction out of Canada that gold could go above $ US700 within week . 

Drought lower wool production estimate 
The late estimate for wool production this season have fall far due to the drought . 
According to Australian Wool Innovation , shorn wool production for 2006-07 be expect to fall 9 per cent to 421 million kilogram . 
The fall be due to a national drop in fleece weight , which be forecast to hit their low level in more than 20 year . 
Meanwhile wool price continue to hold onto strong gain achieve in recent week , with a slight increase in the market at this week 's sale . 

French ask question over cheese shipment rejection 
The French Government be demand an explanation from Australian quarantine authority over the rejection of a fourth shipment of roquefort cheese , contain high level of E coli bacteria . 
The Departments of Agriculture and Foreign Affairs be in talk with French trade representative to resolve the dispute over the non-pasteurised product . 
The importer , Lactalis , have stop send the iconic blue cheese to Australia until the two country reach agreement over it safety . 
Lydia Buchtmann from Food Standards Australia New Zealand say authority have to be careful of any imported raw milk product . 
`` It 's a complex issue and I suppose it 's a question of find out where the contamination occur , '' she say . 
`` Of course the last thing that the importer or the producer of the cheese want be someone to get ill from it . 

Aust wine export up 8pc 
The volume of Australian wine export have reach a record 749 million litre this year , up 8 per cent . 
In the late wine export approval report , the value of wine have increase slightly by 0.2 per cent , which be the first positive result in month . 
Lawrie Stanford from the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation say demand ahead of Christmas from the UK , China and Europe have lead to increase volume . 
`` Traditionally the Australian wine industry ship a lot of wine overseas to meet the Christmas need and also wine have mature over the last season around this time , '' he say . 
`` So normally our peak season be around at the moment but we 've have a couple of quiet month and November be a a great catch up for u . '' 

NT grower brand small mango trays a flop 
New , small tray use to transport mango have be brand a failure by many grower in the Northern Territory . 
The major supermarket chain Coles and Woolworths introduce the 12 per layer tray to reduce handling . 
But they be estimate to have cost Territory pack house more than $ 2 million , which be not be recoup in the marketplace . 
Karl Gygar from Pinata Marketings say the supermarket will have to accept the tray be not work . 
`` Customers be look at these box and think that they 're either reject from Coles and Woolworths , and so obviously not worth a premium price , '' he say . 
`` I know for a fact that a lot of Queensland grower have cancel their 12 per layer box order just due to the reaction in the market . '' 

Buffalo whisperer hop for more support to send buffalo to Aceh 
Efforts have begin to send another shipment of trained buffalo from the Northern Territory to the Indonesian province of Aceh . 
Seven water buffalo be send to remote rural village earlier this year to help resident recover from the 2004 Boxing Day tsunami . 
Buffalo whisperer Graham Heffernan say the villager have be frustrate by delay in replace their important beast of burden . 
He be hop the Federal Government will support plan to send another 50 by April . 
`` One of the first thing one of the farmer say to me be , 'why so long ' ? '' Mr Heffernan say . 
`` He be n't have a go at me ... take so long to get the buffalo there , it be like , 'all this other aid have happen here in Aceh , why have it take so long for someone to bring buffalo to u , because that 's what we really need ' . 
`` And that 's just the beginning you know . Like hopefully in 12-18 month we may be send them in hundred per month . '' 
The first Australian aid donation of trained water buffalo be the result of an unlikely alliance between a buffalo whisperer , a private benefactor , Newcastle surfer , the live export industry , shipping , fodder , trucking and quarantine authority . 

Farmers urge to consider grow truffle 
Farmers look to diversify after the drought be be urge to look at produce truffle . 
It take at least five year to produce up to 40 kilogram of truffle a hectare . 
The exotic french fungus be currently fetch $ 3,000 a kilogram . 
The Australian Truffle Growers Association be have it inaugural meeting this weekend near Canberra , although grower Wayne Haslam say potential newcomer need to know the fact . 
`` You 've get to be careful though - if it sound too good to be true it usually be , '' he say . 

Stock route traveller praise farmer ' generosity 
The generosity of farmer in time of drought have astound a woman who have be travel the stock route of southern New South Wales . 
For the past two month , Elizabeth Murphy from the Adelaide Hills have be travel along the Murrumbidgee River in a replica drover wagon with two horse and a couple of chooks for company . 
She say the country have dry off and water be short but farmer be always keen to help . 
`` The drought 's so bad the farmer have get no food and yet when I be park at Darlington Point I be swim in the river with my grandchild and I get out , and somebody have leave a bag of horse feed for me , '' she say . 
`` I do n't even know who they be , they do n't even say hello , they just drop it off there for me . 

Drought wo n't stop delivery of PM 's Xmas tree 
Not even the festive season can escape the drought , with this year 's harvest of Christmas tree produce small tree than usual due to poor rainfall . 
Christmas tree farmer Gary Black from Gippsland in Victoria say tree from the southern state be in high demand . 
He say one of his special customer will receive the best tree he have to offer . 

Senate committee member reject petrol inquiry report 
Members of a Senate committee investigate petrol price have reject the inquiry 's final report , prepare by Liberal Senator George Brandis . 
The report conclude market fluctuation save motorist money , further regulation would cost them more and the Federal Government can not influence the high price pay in rural area . 
Deputy chairwoman of the Senate Economics Committee Labor Senator Ursula Stephens say the report 's conclusion be unacceptable . 
`` There be great disappointment by the recommendation which really support the status quo and find there be nothing that could be do that could alleviate high petrol price for country people , '' she say . 

Wheat export system should focus on grower return , Crean say 
The Opposition 's new trade spokesman , Simon Crean , say the single desk wheat export system should not be use a a bargaining chip in world trade talk . 
Prime Minister John Howard have say the Government will be careful it do not throw away the single desk without get something in return in the international arena . 
But Mr Crean say if Labor win government it would place more importance on maximise return to wheat grower and make sure the system be properly scrutinise . 
`` This ca n't be see a a bargaining chip , it have to be see a ensure the return to viability and integrity in our wheat trade , '' he say . 
Meanwhile Wheat Australia , the consortium of grain handler ABB , CBH and Graincorp , have re-submitted it export application for 500,000 tonne of wheat to Iraq . 
It follow the decision last week by the Federal Government to shift the veto power over wheat export from AWB to Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran . 
East coast grain handler Graincorp have also make four application to export wheat to Japan , Europe , Indonesia and Malaysia , total more than 200,000 tonne . 
In another development , grain analyst be predict global stock to fall to the low level in 20 year next season , a drought condition hit most wheat-producing country . 
The United States Department of Agriculture predict global wheat stock will drop to 119 million tonne next year , the low level see in two decade , thanks to drought and difficult planting condition around the world . 
As a result , this year 's high price be likely to continue into 2007 , with the competition between fuel industry and food add to the pressure . 
Grains analyst Lloyd George say the so-called food versus fuel factor be significant . 
`` The big surprise factor that 's happen on a long term basis , the emergence of biofuels would be right up there , '' he say . 
`` There 's strong incentive to use these biofuels in a number of different country and I 'd expect that to continue . '' 

Saleyards use to protect shelter stock 
As bushfires continue to burn in Victoria , local saleyards be be use to shelter livestock . 
Wangaratta saleyards in the north-east will be open 24 hour a day to accept cattle and sheep in emergency . 
Water and shelter will be available but the chief executive of Wangaratta Council , Doug Sharp , say feed also need to be provide . 
`` We can hold them indefinitely but it 's the situation regard feed that be the issue , '' he say . 

Senate committee call for national water register 
A Senate committee be call on the federal and state government to better deal with Australia 's water problem by establish a national water entitlement register . 
The Rural and Regional Affairs Committee 's water inquiry report also recommend the Federal Government should build a sewage recycling plant to educate the public and help farmer switch from crop that use large amount of water . 
Committee chairman Senator Bill Heffernan say well accounting of current water stock be need to help planning . 
`` We need to put onto a database what water we 've get , '' he say . 
`` In the Murray Darling Basin , we 've identify 3,000 gigalitres that 's go to disappear out of the system due to climate change , fire , forest interception . 

Eyre Peninsula farmer may have to shoot sheep 
Farmers on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia may have to shoot their sheep in the next few month because they can not afford to fee them or send them to market . 
Local producer Andrew Mills say low price be pay for sheep and lamb , combine with the high cost of transport to saleyards north of Adelaide , be force tough decision . 
He say the glut of sheep and lambs from interstate make it difficult to even book sheep and lamb into abattoir . 
`` In the next few month you might see quite a few sheep from Eyre Peninsula that will just have to be slaughter and bury if the number keep come out of Victoria , '' he say . 
`` It 's get to the stage this week that unless they be very good sheep , you 'll get a bill if you send them to Adelaide . 

Wine grape grower may run out of water 
Some wine grape grower in South Australia 's Riverland could run out of irrigation water as early a next month . 
The state 's Murray River irrigators be currently only able to use 60 per cent of their entitlement . 
Viticulturist Peter Burne say with the ongoing dry , irrigators be use more water than usual . 
`` A lot of grower have already go over 30 per cent of their total allocation for the year , '' he say . 

Dept hop sediment flow into Lake Argyle will decrease 
Authorities hope they have slow down the amount of soil run into Australia 's large inland sea , Lake Argyle , in the Kimberley region of Western Australia . 
A decade ago , scientist estimate the Ord River Irrigation Scheme 's main reservoir would lose 30 per cent of it storage capacity in the next 100 year . 
But sediment level have recently be survey again and Duncan Palmer from the Department of Water hop they show a slow-down of nutrient build up from wet season run-off . 

PGA to fight for farmer ' water right 
The Western Australian Pastoralist and Graziers Association ( PGA ) say it will fight to maintain farmer ' water right after an Environmental Protection Authority report allow 45 gigalitres of water to be transport to Perth from the southern Yarragadee aquifer . 
The report , release late last week , say the Water Corporation can sustainably draw water from the aquifer without harm the environment . 
But farmer be concern their future water need have be overlook . 
Water spokesman for the PGA , Dave Wren , say it be time Perth start develop it own water save strategy . 
`` The National Water Initiative call for each catchment to have a plan - Perth have not get a plan , '' he say . 
`` There 's at least 112 gigalitres of water be pump from domestic bore unlicensed and unmetered , there 's recycle opportunity in Perth that have be identify . 

NSW farm win import mushroom anti-dumping case 
A three-year anti-dumping case on import mushroom have now be resolve in favour of an Australian processor . 
The Federal Government have uphold it decision to put anti-dumping measure in place against Chinese tin mushroom . 
Michael Leahy , from Windsor Farms in central New South Wales , say his company be now consider action on dumped tomato , potato and corn but have urge the Federal Government to speed up the complaint process . 
`` What it need be clarification and some administrative change inside the Act under which they operate , '' he say . 
`` But also it probably need to be resourced sufficiently to conduct the investigation quickly enough . 

Committee push for act of Parliament to handle private logging 
A New South Wales committee try to resolve a 20-year debate over the management of privately own native forest want a separate act of Parliament develop to deal with the issue . 
There be 8.5 million hectare of private timber resource in the state and green group want tighter control on logging . 
The Primary Industries and Economic Development Committee , which be advise the State Government , have until the end of the year to resolve the long-running debate or risk industry lose control of the forest to the State Government . 
Committee chair Craig Tate say the issue be not simply about regulate timber harvesting . 
`` We have small community out there that depend on the timber industry and the private resource be a multi-million dollar industry and we have to be very careful how we deal with it , '' he say . 
`` But also we be in a major environmental situation at the moment . 

Bath sponge have potential global demand , scientist say 
Marine researcher have discover property of the golden bath sponge that will benefit agriculture , pearl and medicine . 
Dr Chris Battershill , of the Australian Institute of Marine Science , say more work be need to successfully farm sponge . 
`` In the agricultural sector the lead can be take right through to market and quite quickly , '' he say . 
`` Australia be lead the globe in many of the area of farm husbandry and maintenance , if you like , but also in the bio-medicinal sector , there be now a capability to take thing into the clinic . 

Govt not deal quickly enough with global warm concern : Garrett 
The Opposition 's new environment spokesman say a federal Labor Government would be more responsive to farmer ' concern about climate change . 
Peter Garrett , a former head of the Australian Conservation Foundation , be appoint in Kevin Rudd 's weekend frontbench reshuffle . 
Others with new portfolio relevant to rural Australia include Kerry O'Brien in primary industry , Simon Crean in trade and regional development , Anthony Albanese in water , and Chris Evans in resource . 
Mr Garrett say the Federal Government be not deal quickly enough with community concern about global warming . 

Global commodity demand to prop up farm sector 
Despite drought condition and plunge farm income , high global demand for commodity be expect to keep Australia 's farm sector afloat in 2007 , with price up 16 per cent on the same time last year . 
The Westpac Rural Commodity Index also show rise rural land value be provide a buffer against debt and will be the main driver in post-drought recovery . 
Westpac 's Justin Smirk say most farmer will be able to withstand a drop in income next year . 
`` Over the last five year Australia 's top farmer have actually be generate rate of return that match if not exceed a lot of rate of return we see in other asset around Australia , '' he say . 

NFF hit out at make up of carbon emission task force 
The National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) be angry at the make-up of Prime Minister John Howard 's new task force to investigate carbon emission trading . 
President David Crombie say stack the group with mining and energy interest have hurt any real attempt to address climate change . 
Senior staff from BHP Billiton , Qantas , Xstrata Alumina and the National Bank will join Federal Government bureaucrat on the task force . 
Mr Crombie say it be extremely short-sighted of Mr Howard to exclude agriculture and other sector interest . 
`` Farmers do have it within their capacity to contribute to reduce emission , which be one of the major cause of greenhouse gas change and be link with climate change , '' Mr Crombie say . 
`` If farmer have a role to play there , which I believe they do , then it 's important that they be part of any long term plan go forward . '' 
Meanwhile a national emission trade summit in Sydney have be tell agriculture be pay the price for a century of pollution generate by the coal and resource sector . 
Australian Greens Senator Christine Milne say the Federal Government must set a national cap on emission and coal company should be force to comply . 
Senator Milne say the resource sector have make massive profit and agriculture have suffer a a consequence . 
`` We now have rural Australia suffer with extreme bushfires , with the collapse of their whole agricultural productive system because of climate change , '' she say . 
`` They be not be compensate for that by the coal industry so it 's time that the resource-based industry recognise that they have get a role to play . 

Growers warn not to sign contract 
There be claim today agent and merchant in the fruit and vegetable market be try to get around the loom mandatory code of conduct . 
Growers say they be be offer contract before the new code be introduce into Federal Parliament . 
The code aim to make the sale process more transparent , so grower can see what happen with their product . 
Peter Darley from the New South Wales Farmers Association say grower should not sign anything just yet . 
`` I have have phone call from producer a of yesterday say that there be ... contract be present by agent for them to look at and consider the obligation of sign contract , '' he say . 
`` I would suggest to grower at this stage the code have not be enact on yet in Parliament . 
`` If they be go to sign , that they certainly get an independent opinion before they go ahead and sign those contract in consideration of their business . '' 
The wholesale sector admit it be try to circumvent the code before it be make law . 

Tas bushfire damage 'severe ' 
Houses , pasture and fencing have be destroy in a 10,000 hectare fire on Tasmania 's north-east coast . 
An assessment of damage be expect later today but at least 18 house have be destroy in the town of Scamander . 
Local vet Tim McManus say the extent of stock loss be not yet know but at least one farm have suffer extensively . 
`` Glencoe around u have very severe fire damage , many of their paddock be burnt and even now some of the bushland around them be still burn , '' he say . 

Volunteer firefighter battle Vic blaze 
Volunteer firefighter in Victoria be continue to pour into the mountain to relieve weary colleague . 
Milder condition be help firefighting effort , although temperature be due to climb again later this week . 
Myrrhee in the north-eastern King Valley be not under direct threat , so member of it fire brigade have join the frontline effort . 
Captain Bill Forge say the volunteer be do all they can . 
`` Our crew have be work from fire at Whitfield for the last week , they 're not at Myrrhee at all most of them , '' he say . 

Labor push for wheat export system inquiry 
Federal Labor 's new primary industry spokesman want an independent inquiry into whether the single desk wheat export system deliver the best value to grower . 
Tasmanian Senator Kerry O'Brien say while the system deliver the best value to grower and the community , Labor will support it . 
But he say the Federal Government should be appoint an independent group that would investigate wheat export marketing and report publicly to Parliament . 
`` To have the community debate that report , rather than this closed door approach to consultation that the Government have , '' he say . 

US committee chief to let Senate decide on AWB probe 
The new chairman of the US House Agriculture Committee say he will leave it up to the US Senate to probe the AWB scandal , but will look at way to prevent problem in the future . 
Collin Petersen say he be not interested in `` assigning blame '' base on `` past history '' , but in deal with the monopoly practice of the AWB and the Canadian Wheat Board for the future : `` We 're not happy about the Australian Wheat Board , we think that have this kind of a system be not fair and not right , and we 've be try to get rid of it for a long time , some of u , '' he say . 
`` So we will be watch to see how this be reconstitute and whether it be go to be do in a way that be transparent , or whether it 's go to be utilise to undercut u when we 're try to go into other market . '' 
Mr Petersen expect the Senate , under new democratic leadership , to look at why the just-ended Republican Congress drop any plan to probe the oil for food scandal . 
Meanwhile wheat exporter AWB have drop price for the 2006/07 national pool by $ 8 a tonne . 
The company blame a weak international market for the decline , with the benchmark premium white wheat now return $ 242 a tonne . 

Rice crop expect to drop 
This year 's rice crop will be one of the small in more than 50 year due to cut to water allocation in southern New South Wales . 
The Department of Primary Industries estimate less than 12,000 hectare of rice have be sow , only 10 per cent of average planting . 
Other industry source say the figure be more like 15,000 hectare , which will yield around 130,000 tonne of rice . 
Griffith district rice grower Glen Andreazza say the late reduction in water allocation mean he have have to abandon his rice crop . 
`` I have sow 80 acre of rice and have to de-water all of it , '' he say . 
`` It be to the point where all I have to do be to keep water on it and watch it grow . 

Bass Coast applies for EC assistance 
One of the green part of southern Australia be now put it hand up for exceptional circumstance ( EC ) drought assistance . 
Farmers on the Bass Coast in southern Victoria say they be suffer one of the bad season on record . 
Stephanie Symes from the Bass Coast Shire Council say district farmer be use to much wetter condition . 
`` It 's the first time we 've ever have stage four water restriction apply , '' she say . 

Extra fund allocate for Qld sugar industry reform 
The Federal Government have announce another $ 33 million to reform the sugar industry in Queensland . 
One of the plan be to generate a third of Mackay 's energy need from nearby cane field . 
Under a $ 95 million project , the Mackay Sugar Co-operative will transform one it mill to convert sugar cane waste into steam and then electricity . 
Chief executive John Pollock say the funding will kickstart the plant . 
`` We 're really pleased that $ 12 million that the Government have see the value of the project and we presume that it 's fund the early stage of that project rather then the latter stage , '' he say . 

Camels sell a weed eater in Qld 
Prices have fall at Australia 's third commercial camel sale but organiser say there be a grow market for use the animal a weed eater . 
Camel breeder Paddy McHugh have sell 67 camel under the hammer at the Gracemere saleyards in central Queensland . 
He say while a few camel be buy to boost breeding number , most will have new job manage weed . 
`` That 's probably the most predominant use of them at the moment , be to eat the parkinsonia and prickly acacia and all the wattle regrowth , '' he say . 
`` They do a great job and they coexist with cattle - they 've get all sort of funny little thing , the ruminant bug they pass on . 

Drought force vegetable price up 
Shoppers be be warn that vegetable price could rise by 30 per cent before Christmas , and even double in January , a the drought continue to hurt production . 
But grower group be worried that price hike at the retail level be not be pass back to farmer , with many lock into contract that do not recognise high cost . 
AusVeg chairman Mike Badcock say some grower have raise concern about profiteer during the drought . 
`` I think while we can keep spread the word that we 'll be look very hard at margin and the return to grower , hopefully that keep everybody honest . There 's an opportunity here to reward grower who have do the right thing , drought proof their farm and they do need some reward for that , '' he say . 
The Australian Consumer and Competition Commission be review price in the meat industry as well , with a report due next week . 
And it be not just the drought that be set to hurt price . 
Fruit and vegetable grower in southern Queensland be count the cost of devastate hail storm which sweep through the region late yesterday . 
While up to 90 millimetre of rain be record in gauge on the Darling Downs , the hail have leave a multi-million dollar damage bill . 
Growers have report damage to crop of cabbage , strawberry , plum , table grape , tomato , mango and avocadoes and Stanthorpe lettuce grower Dean Radin say that could mean a price rise at the supermarket . 

Wholesalers not happy with fruit and veg code 
The controversial regulatory code of conduct for the fruit and vegetable industry be expect to be sign off by the Governor-General today . 
But section of the industry still be not happy with it . 
The code specify how wholesaler and grower must deal with each other in the future , but exclude supermarket , the big retailer and processor . 
Wholesaler Andrew Young , from the Central Markets Association of Australia , say the code he have see will be a cost burden for everyone . 
`` It add significant administration cost . There 's legal requirement that have be introduce , which grower must obtain legal advice prior to execute an agreement with a wholesaler . There 's much more prescription in term of how wholesaler can and can not act and virtually require in excess 90 per cent of the industry to totally change how they 've do business for many many year , '' he say . 

Zinifex and Umicore link for zinc 
Australia 's large lead and zinc miner will combine it smelt asset with a Belgian company to become the world 's big producer of zinc alloy . 
Zinifex have sign a memorandum of understand with Umicore to form a global company to produce 1.2 million tonne of zinc and alloy a year . 
Zinifex say it want to concentrate on mining , but spokesman Martin MacFarlane say exist smelter operation in Hobart and Port Pirie will not be affect . 
`` Those business tomorrow will continue on much a they have today , there 's no change to any of the employee term and condition for the short to medium term future - we see the business will be very much a it be today , '' he say . 
`` Longer term , however , it may create and open opportunity that may not have be otherwise available just from the fact that Zinifex do not wish to develop that side of the business . '' 

Japan agree to export talk 
Despite concern over the impact on it agriculture sector , Japan have agree to discuss good access for Australian farm export under a possible free trade agreement . 
Formal talk on the trade deal will start early next year , which the Federal Government believe could be worth $ 39 billion to Australia over 20 year . 
Trade Minister Warren Truss say Japan might push for more opportunity to sell niche product to Australia , but farmer here should receive the big gain . 
`` We be export a lot of beef into Japan at the present time , but all of it be pay 40 per cent or more tariff , '' he say . 

Deadline for potential wheat exporter loom 
The Federal Government want potential wheat exporter to submit their application by Friday , to give certainty to grain grower during the harvest . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran now have the power of veto over export application , after it removal from AWB in the wake of the Cole inquiry . 
Mr McGauran say application will be assess on public interest ground to maximise return to the industry . 

Howard visit Vic firefighter 
Prime Minister John Howard have visit firefighter in north-east Victoria , a they continue to battle bushfires which have now burn 400,000 hectare . 
Thick smoke cover Whitfield a resident and Country Fire Authority ( CFA ) volunteer meet with the Prime Minister today . 
Made up of beef property and vineyard , the Whitfield area in the north-east of Victoria have be threaten by fire since lightning strike hit there a week and a half ago . 
John Howard have thank firefighter for their work , and get a briefing on the fire condition which be expect to last many week . 
He also speak with local , mostly woman , who be busy make cup of tea and sandwich for the crew . 
He will visit the fire ground before fly to Tasmania , where he be expect to make a funding announcement . 
Meanwhile cooler weather on Tasmania 's east coast be help firefighter control a bushfire which have burnt more than 11,500 hectare and destroy 17 home . 
Firefighters be work to contain the fire ahead of forecast hotter and winder condition tomorrow . 
Farmer Stephen Woods , whose two farm near Scamander be already hit by drought , have save his livestock , but lose more than 100,000 of pasture and another 700 hectare of bush . 

Gorgon gas field development give green light 
The WA Government have give the environmental nod to the development of the Gorgon gas field on Barrow Island . 
The island , off the Pilbara Coast , be a reserve that be home to the rare flatback turtle and other endangered specie . 

Drought stall dairy-based manage investment scheme 
The development of the nation 's first dairy-based manage investment scheme have stall due to the drought . 
Carilla Dairy at Tintinara in South Australia 's south-east have fail to find enough cow because of a lack of feed . 
The company need 2,000 head before it can issue a prospectus , but only have 1,200 . 
Peter Doman from Dairy Management Australia say despite the delay , he be confident the scheme will be successful . 
`` We 're go to try and keep on track , but obviously this year have present it problem for u , '' he say . 
`` We 've just get to work towards what we 're go to do over the next 12 month . As you say , it 's the first dairy farm that 's go to be involve in a scheme , we think it 'll be sell next year and we think it 'll go very very well . 
The drought be hit the dairy sector in general , with milk production drop below the past two season . 

EMS accreditation do n't attract premium price : study 
A study have find consumer will not pay extra for food just because it have environmental credential . 
Increasingly farm be adopt environment management system ( EMS ) , which can cost up to $ 10,000 to implement . 
The Australian Farm Institute have find product stamp with an EMS accreditation do not attract premium , because consumer expect farmer to be environmentally responsible . 
But spokesman Mick Keogh say the EMS system be useful to win new market . 

Aquifers be badly mismanage : letter 
Australia 's underground water supply be in crisis , accord to a letter that have be send to all level of government . 
Written by seven of the country 's lead hydro-geologists from the public and private sector , the document say Australia 's aquifer be be badly mismanage . 
Spokesman Dr Rick Evans say on every level , from policy to education , effort be aim at repair river , instead of restore groundwater . 

Santa get help hand from businessman 
An anonymous Sydney businessman have donate $ 150,000 to buy Christmas hamper for drought affected family in western New South Wales . 
The donor say he want to let struggle family know that people in the city do care about them . 
Jamie Simmons from Broken Hill 's Christian City Church hop it will make a little difference . 

Saleyards industry worry about livestock dumping 
With sheep selling for as little a 10 cent a head in some part of the country , the New South Wales Shires Association be call on saleyards to waive their fee . 
But the industry be worry that saleyards could become a dumping ground for livestock in poor condition . 
David Pollock from the Livestock Saleyards Association of Victoria say farmer must consider the welfare of their animal . 
`` People should consider whether the animal be fit to load and to be transport , and go through the rigour of the saleyard process before it 's send there , '' he say . 
`` And if it 's not in that condition , well then it should n't come to the saleyard . '' 
And the RSPCA be urge grazier to look after their livestock follow the conviction of a 54-year-old farmer from southern New South Wales . 
Llewellyn Mark Doulman be convict on 77 breach of the Cruelty to Animals Act for his treatment of 2,500 sheep . 

Court ask to streamline AWI case 
Australian Wool Innovation ( AWI ) have ask the Federal Court to streamline it case against the animal right group PETA . 
The peak wool body want the claim of 101 woolgrowers heard separately , leave AWI , Elders Limited and BWK Elders Australia to go to trial against PETA and Animal Liberation New South Wales . 
AWI start it case against PETA in November 2004 and join the woolgrowers to the action in March , 2005 . 
AWI 's counsel tell Justice Rares his client propose corral the woolgrowers separately for efficiency reason to streamline the case . 
But PETA 's barrister Michael Jones say this would prejudice his client because PETA want access to the farmer ' contract for sale of wool , financial record and mulesing information . 

Weather condition to test firefighter 
Hot and windy weather this afternoon be expect to test firefighter battle a large fire near Tumut , in southern New South Wales . 
The fire have burn 13,000 hectare - mainly pine plantation . 
Landholders in the Argalong and Goobruhgandra valley have be on high alert since yesterday afternoon , when the fire breach containment line . 
A handful of people have be relocate . 
Last night firefighter be able to put in new containment line but with hot north-westerly wind forecast for this afternoon there be concern there might be spot-overs . 
Rural Fire Service Commissioner Phil Koperberg be tour the region and an extra 70 fire brigade have be bring in . 
A sky crane helicopter be also add to the aerial attack . 
Forests New South Wales will attempt to salvage timber from the burnt pine plantation near Tumut . 
At least 10,000 hectare of pine have be burn so far . 
Spokesman Bob Almond say tree that have be blacken can still be salvage , but there be a time limit . 

Milk tanker help out firefighting effort 
Dairy processor Murray Goulburn have come to the aid of Victorian firefighter who be battle blaze in hot and windy condition today . 
Milk tanker be be fill with water and take to the fire front for the Country Fire Authority . 
Brad Stokel from Murray Goulburn say the tanker will be use for as long a they be need . 
`` We 've get tanker available and we put those in the location that they request , '' he say . 

Bush call on to halt S Korea free trade talk 
Key US farm state senator be demand the Bush Administration end free trade talk with South Korea , until Seoul end a defacto ban on import of US beef . 
The seven senator make their request after the Koreans reject three US beef shipment on claim the meat have tiny bone fragment . 
Agriculture committee spokesman Keith Williams say the law-makers just run out of patience . 
`` Unless the export of US beef resume and both country be able to agree on a reasonable and fair bone tolerance level for future shipment , then , anything less than that , would result in the opposition of the senator that sign this letter , '' he say . 

Administrator look into Co-op 's finance 
The administrator of a fruit grower ' cooperative in southern New South Wales have tell grower creditor that they will only get around a quarter of their money back . 
The Young District Producers ' Cooperative Society , which process dry fruit , go into voluntary administration with outstanding debt of about $ 2.6 million . 
Administrator Steve Parbery say there be also concern the Co-op may have be trade while insolvent . 
`` The question mark arise a to why the Co-op end up in this position and it would appear that the accounting that be do prior to June 06 , '' he say . 

Win for avocado grower in blight fight 
Avocado grower have win their fight for tough restriction to protect the industry from the fungal disease , avocado blight . 
Biosecurity Australia have impose strong rule for import New Zealand avocado , include a ban on any fruit with windrub , which look the same a blight . 
Avocadoes Australia 's Chris Nelson say the new protocol could lead to a rise in the cost of fruit for consumer . 
`` Because there will be less fruit export to Australia there will be a change in that supply and demand balance and inevitably I guess the price may rise to a certain extent so they 're look towards probably a good return for the fruit they do send over , '' he say . 
Random inspection will be conduct on Australian fruit orchard this summer to ensure grower be not breach plant breeder ' right . 

Fishing sector angry over marine park plan 
Western Australia 's commercial fishing sector be angry that be have not be consult about new marine park plan for the state 's north-west . 
The State Government will create the park , a part of an attempt to protect the environment , once the $ 15 billion Gorgon gas field be develop on Barrow Island . 
But Guy Leyland from the WA Fishing Industry Council say the $ 130 million sector be not tell about the plan , and still know little about what be propose . 
`` We learn about an hour before the public announcement by the Minister , '' he say . 
`` The Minister telephone u and advise u that this be what the Government be go to do . 
`` It 's just point to I think that we be n't consult more closely in term of the Government 's intention . 

Wool price up 
Wool price have end on a positive note at the final Sydney auction for 2006 . 

The northern wool market indicator have finish on 858 cent a kilo , up 11 cent on last week . 
The last sale for the year be be hold in Melbourne and Fremantle today , and wool broker Don MacDonald expect price to stay firm . 
`` Yes I would think so , supply be now the main issue and I ca n't see any way the market will flag off today , '' he say . 

Drought expect to drive more from farm 
Demographers and farm organisation say the severity of the drought be likely to accelerate the trend of primary producer leave the land . 
The National Farmers Federation say it do not expect an exodus , but the drought will continue the trend of few farmer run big property . 
Social researcher for the Victorian Department of Primary Industries , Dr Neil Barr , say history suggest few young people will become farmer . 
`` In the census period before the 1983 drought there be 10,000 people age in their late 20 , 25-30 that enter farming in the five year before it , and then in the late 1980s that have drop to 6,000 , '' he say . 

Bushfire battle continue in Tas 
Firefighters continue to battle large bushfires threaten the township of St Mary 's and Irish Town in Tasmania 's north-east . 
The fire front be about a kilometre north of the town , near the German Town Road , and fan by north-easterly wind . 
Tasmanian Fire Service district officer Steve Lowe say crew be work on control burn while condition allow , but be brace for an unfavourable weather change tomorrow , 
`` It 's still move quite slowly at this time however the forecast be not favourable for firefighting at all , '' he say . 

Pressure mount for quick wheat export decision 
Pressure be build on the Federal Government to make a quick decision on wheat export , with at least half a dozen company lodge application . 
Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran now have the final say on who should be allow to export wheat after the removal of AWB 's veto in the wake of the Cole inquiry . 
Sources say Brooks Grain , Cargill , Ozepulse and Louis Dreyfus be among several exporter who have lodge the late bid for around 3 million tonne . 
But Peter Howard from Ozepulse say it be still unclear if the new system will make it easy for AWB 's rival to export wheat . 
`` It 's new so there be a lack of clarity , I mean we 're guess what 's go to happen , '' he say . 
`` I would hardly consider it would have any adverse effect on the national pool . 
`` I ca n't see if you grant another competitor an approval they 've still get to buy the wheat , presumably you ca n't buy it for any less than what AWB be offer you 've get to pay more . 

Mother of injured horse rider back hard hat 
The Northern Territory 's outback community be rally around a severely injured campdrafter . 
Quita Docking be recover from a head injury she receive four year ago , when she be crush by her horse . 
In a miraculous recovery , she have leave her wheelchair and learnt to walk , and ride again . 
Mother Gladys Docking say she be grateful for local support which help to send Quita to Germany for stem cell therapy . 
She also want to encourage all rider to wear hard hat . 
`` Quita be always against it , a a teenager . I be always , always try to get her to wear it , '' she say . 
`` [ She ] never would , but [ I continue to encourage use ] , now more so than ever . Quita would still have suffer injury , but they would have be minimise . 
`` It do n't take much to have a bit of a hot head for a couple of hour , you can take it off when you be off the horse . 

Wool market end year on high note 
The wool market have end the year strongly , with the eastern market indicator up 14 cent to 839 cent a kilogram . 
Following solid gain in the Sydney sale early in the week , price in Melbourne jump 16 per cent . 
Merino fleece wool be in strong demand , with price rise across all micron type . 
Buyers from China have dominate sale this year but a pick up in demand from other country have be a major factor in lift the market . 

Court date set for AWI case 
A trial date have finally be set for Australian Wool Innovation 's ( AWI ) long-running case against the animal right group , PETA . 
The Federal Court will hear the case over two month from October next year . 
Legal action be launch against PETA in 2004 after it mount an international campaign to boycott Australian wool , over the practice of mulesing and live export . 
Les Targ from AWI say the peak body plan to call more than 30 witness . 
`` I wo n't be specific about name but obviously we 'll be talk people who be expert in the area of fly control and expert in the geographic region , and the effect of fly in those region , so we 'll be call on a range of expert , '' he say . 

Roma saleyards for sale 
Australia 's big saleyard complex be on the market . 
The council-owned Roma saleyards in southern Queensland will most likely be put out to tender in the New Year . 
But yard manager be already deny a possible sale will squeeze out small independent agent in favour of big company like Elders and Landmark . 
Chairman of the Roma saleyards board Rob Loughnan say it be early day in the tender process and a sale would have to benefit all party . 
`` I want to hear from people about whether they think it would be good in private or public ownership , '' he say . 
`` Its not just he money we 're talk about , if someone want to buy it just to shut it down in favour of another centre somewhere , you know , away from Roma , so Roma lose the benefit of 400,000 cattle throughput a year , that 's not go to be of interest to u , '' he say . 
Major livestock agent Elders have deny it be behind the possible sale of Roma . 
Queensland livestock manager , Tony Gooden be reject speculation that his company be either interested in buy the yard , or set up it own facility in competition to the council-run centre . 

Tas bushfires wipe out $ 50m plantation timber 
Tasmania 's bushfires have destroy plantation timber worth an estimated $ 50 million . 
About 17,000 hectare of bush have be burn on the north-east coast since the fire begin last weekend . 
Kim Creak from Forestry Tasmania say it be too early for accurate assessment but early estimate place the loss in the ten of million . 

Stock loss assess after Vic bushfires 
Government inspector be assess stock loss after bushfires in eastern Victoria , which have destroy about 20 house . 
Hundreds of kilometre of fencing , large area of pasture and shed have be destroy in a number of location in Gippsland and the north-east range , include around Toongabbie , Gaffney 's Creek and Cooper 's creek . 
A 48-year-old man die when he fell off a trailer while fight a fire near Heyfield in Gippsland . 
There have be significant stock loss around Dargo , and Angus Hume , from Victoria 's Department of Primary Industries , say farmer need to be ready for more fire front in coming day . 
`` You really must make sure that you have water provide for stock and feed if you have them in containment area and just those general thing that be about plan beforehand , '' he say . 

Climate change to worsen fire situation : report 
The farmer-funded Climate Institute say high bushfire danger day will increase by up to a third in the next 30 year , a a result of climate change . 
The lobby group have analyse data from the Bureau of Meteorology and CSIRO , which suggest Australia be likely to heat up and become drier . 
Climate scientist Graham Pearman say government need to decide whether they invest in measure to mitigate climate change now , or boost firefighting resource later . 

Farmers under pressure to compete in global trade 
A new report back farmer claim that they be under pressure to cut cost to remain competitive in global trade . 
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) say while food export have grow at 10 per cent a year , it be get hard to make a profit in both export and domestic market . 
ABARE 's Lisa Elliston say manufacturer and processor be also under pressure . 

Farmers turn to Malaysia for cheap fodder 
Dairy processor Murray Goulburn be look to our northern neighbour for fodder to help farmer fee their cow . 
The first shipment of palm kernel extract from Malaysia be due in mid-January . 
The extract be a by-product of the palm oil industry , and be make up of ground and dry skin , and the flesh of the palm kernel . 
Ross Greenaway from Murray Goulburn say the rise price of grain make the extract a cheap option for farmer . 
`` This first load of palm kernel be $ 220 plus GST plus freight . That be very cost effective compare to the current price of grain , '' he say . 

Do n't ignore depression , doctor urge 
Rural doctor say their already tight resource will be stretch a the drought drag on , but they be urge people to seek help for depression regardless . 
The Rural Doctors Association say people feel stressed and depressed to see their GPs early , because problem can become bad the longer they be untreated . 
President Dr Peter Riesbieth say rural practice will have to prioritise their appointment , but it be important to ask for help . 

Riverina irrigators call for compensation 
Riverina irrigators have rally to voice their anger at New South Wales Government cut to their water allocation , and be call for compensation . 
Rice farmer , dairy farmer and cropper , already have zero water allocation this season , but since October the NSW Government have cut 52 per cent of farmer 's carry over water . 
This be water farmer have save in the previous year , to use in the current drought . 
So today farmer be rally in the street , to show their anger at the State Government 's decision . 
Farmers also say a number of town and 1,500 farm family now could run out of household water and water for stock . 

Govt expect to change forestry investment rule 
The Federal Government be expect to make change to the investment rule for Managed Investment Schemes ( MIS ) for plantation forestry . 
It be believe the Government will not remove tax advantage for investor , but instead regulate how much invest money be spend on plant tree . 
Liberal Senator Bill Heffernan say he would not object to the change because Australia need more tree for environmental reason . 
But he want the law change for scheme for annual crop , like wine , tomato , olive and wheat . 

Inmates train to become croc farmer 
Inmates from the Darwin Correctional Centre have be train to become the next generation of Northern Territory crocodile farmer . 
Farmer Mick Burns help to develop the croc handle course , which be design for prisoner from remote community where problem crocodile be common . 
He say there be huge growth opportunity for farm and harvest skin , and meat . 
'I think that there be real value in term of development of the crocodile industry to develop regional satellite farm , '' he say . 
`` All we can really do be present the opportunity and make sure that we have the infrastructure and the training , and the like , and then it 's really up to the community . 
`` So whether they be ex-prisoners or they be not , a lot of it be just about create an opportunity and we be pretty happy to be do that . 

Wheat export issue divide grower 
Wheat grower across Australia be divide on whether Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran should allow AWB 's rival to export wheat . 
Mr McGauran now hold the wheat export veto and be consider 44 bid to export wheat to 20 country after call on trader to submit their application . 
Farmers disagree on what Mr McGauran should do , but believe open the market would be the end of the single desk . 
`` It 's too detrimental for the whole grain industry to allow those to take place , it would effectively destroy the single desk a we know it , '' one farmer say . 
`` As far a we 're concern a grower , the single desk have run it day . 
`` To think that you be just go to chuck all that out in one year I think be extremely dangerous , we need to have this debate first and then decide how our wheat be go to be handle . '' 

Farmers debate single desk 
Meanwhile Victorian grain grower be debate how they would like their wheat market overseas at a major forum in Bendigo today . 
Sitting in a hot carpark under a marquee be just under 400 farmer , who have travel several hundred kilometre from Swan Hill and Horsham , as well a other grain grow area to have their say on the single desk . 
The Victorian Farmers Federation ( VFF ) , who have organise today 's forum , want to retain the single desk and have it control by grower . 

Qld storm crush fruit and cane crop 
Severe storm which lash south-east Queensland over the weekend have flatten young sugar cane crop and destroy fruit in the Childers district , near Bundaberg . 
Strong wind have bring down tree and power line , while hail stone describe a half the size of cricket ball have damage crop . 
Cane , mango and lychee grower John Muller be set to harvest fruit in coming week , but say his crop have be almost completely wipe out . 
`` There 's probably less than 1 per cent of the mango hang on the tree and every one of them have five or six chop out of them , '' he say . 

Program aim to encourage farmer to talk about depression 
National organisation Beyondblue be launch a new program today it hop will encourage farmer and rural community to talk about depression . 
The organisation be launch the first phase of it drought action plan with Incitec Pivot . 
Incitec staff will be train to recognise symptom of depression and point people in the right direction for medical and financial help . 
Incitec employee and sufferer of depression Noel Trevaskis say most staff be relieve they can offer practical support . 
`` If they 're talk to a farmer or a farmer 's wife or whoever , then they will be able to have the skill to be able to recognise those sign and symptom , '' he say . 
`` They 'll also be able to offer some help and advice a to where people can get help to see them through the problem that they 're experience . '' 

Farmers fin over land blockade 
For the first time , farmer in the central west of New South Wales have be fin for stop state authority from investigate claim of illegal land clearing . 
Farmers have blockade two property at Tottenham at the weekend . 
The Department of Natural Resources say it have warn farmer representative that fine would be impose if access be block . 
One infringement notice for an $ 1,100 fine have be serve , with another two to be hand out this week . 
Department spokesman Steve Dunn say attempt have be make to work with land holder but the department have a duty to carry out inspection . 

Farmers ass bushfire damage 
As bushfires continue to rage in eastern Victoria , some farmer have have a chance to survey the damage cause by the blaze . 
Stock , shed and house have be lose so far and landholder be gear up to protect their property again a temperature rise this week . 
Gippsland farmer Roger and Kate Bond have lose poultry and shed , although firefighter manage to save their farm house at Cowwarr and some sheep . 
Both be wheelchair-bound and Mr Bond say it be go to take a long time to rebuild . 

Cane smut find near Townsville 
The crippling fungal disease sugar cane smut have be discover even far north in Queensland , in the Herbert River region near Townsville . 
The disease , which cut crop yield , have be first find in the Isis and Bundaberg area in June , and more recently in the central region near Mackay . 
A two kilometre quarantine zone have be impose around the late discovery in the Lannacost area . 
Canegrowers chairman Alf Cristaudo say find the disease in the wetter northern region have be unexpected but grower be prepared . 
`` We would ask everyone now to be even more vigilant than they have be , it 's disappointing and a surprise that we be find it anywhere , '' she say . 

Apple and pear planting drop 
New planting of apple and pear tree have fall by up to 6 per cent . 
The late Bureau of Statistics figure for 2005-2006 also show apple production be down more than 15 per cent on the previous year . 

SA Govt accuse of mismanage fish stock 
A long-term prawn fisher in South Australia be concern about stock level , accuse the State Government of mismanagement . 
An official report in SA have find the prawn catch be only one third what it be in the 1970s . 
Commercial fisher Maurice Corigliano say the Government have allow overfishing in Gulf St Vincent and want boat number reduce . 
The Government have have meeting with the fisherman and tell them it be their responsibility to ensure the fishery be manage sustainably . 
Mr Corigliano say the Minister for Fisheries , Rory McEwen , be dodge the issue . 
`` It 's the Government 's responsibility to manage that fishery , they have the power to say how many vessel come in , how many vessel go out , when they can fish , where they can fish , what size prawn they can take , what size vessel they can use , '' he say . 
`` Regrettably , he be simply not do so and be simply dodge the issue . '' 
The Prawn Boat Owners Association disagree , say number have not deplete and there be no need to reduce licence . 
Currently there be only 10 license boat . 

Govt finalise revamped horticulture code 
The code of conduct for Australia 's horticulture sector have be finalise by the Federal Government . 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran say any new agreement and wholesaler sign after December 15 will be subject to the code . 
It be expect to be table in Parliament in February and will then become law . 

Tas begin dairy cow export to Pakistan 
Tasmanian farmer be export live dairy cow to Pakistan for the first time . 
About 1,000 cow be send to China from Tasmania each year but that trade have slow this season . 
Livestock agent Craig Waldron say the new market look promise , with Pakistan pay $ 800 a head for cross-bred heifer . 
`` Given the season on the current return of what you can expect to buy replacement stock for , it 's pretty reasonable to buy a female that be only just recently join , '' he say . 

Campaign spar Guyra horse 
More than 100 horse have be grant a reprieve in the Guyra region of New South Wales after a campaign to stop them be send to the knackery . 
The future of the horse have be uncertain after their death and a farmer provide agistment have ask for them to be move . 
Campaign coordinator Bianca Lyne say there be plenty of people who want to help . 
`` People have call from a far away a Tasmania and I 'm actually get email even from overseas , '' she say . 

Economists call for independent national water body 
There be call today for an independent , national body to control Australia 's water resource . 
Two water economist have put together the plan to remove political tension between state and federal government . 
One of the plan 's author , CSIRO Professor Mike Young , say a more responsive and consistent system be need to decide water allocation , trading rule and entitlement . 
Professor Young say there be widespread concern that the current system be hamstring by politics . 
`` People be very frustrated with what 's happen , there 's a lot of frustration around the rule over water trading and thing like exit fee , '' he say . 
`` Every state be take subtly different approach , if you have a structure like this it would all be resolve in a unified way , so there 'd be no opportunity for arbitrage from one state to another . '' 
But there be concern from irrigators that the proposal would leave agriculture out of the water reform process . 
National Farmers Federation irrigation task force spokesman Laurie Arthur say farmer need to be represent . 
`` I have real concern that agriculture will not be front and centre of the debate , '' he say . 
`` I 'm a little bit concern at the moment that expertise within agriculture for example , within our irrigation company , be a bit remote from the decision-making process . '' 

Working together 
Meanwhile , peak farm , water , environment and business organisation have agree to work together to push for improvement in water security for farmer and urban user . 
The National Water Commission ( NWC ) stakeholder group have agree on priority , include well water accounting and reporting , and address over-allocation of river . 
Commission chairman Peter Corish say the group realise that body outside government can contribute to find solution to Australia 's water problem . 

Vets urge livestock check in bushfire region 
Vets be urge farmer in bushfire-affected district to check their livestock once fire have pass through . 
In Victoria 's Central Gippsland area , 530 beef cattle , 62 sheep and goat and 120 chicken have be lose . 
Department of Primary Industries vet Liz Parker say damage from the fire might not show for some day . 
`` They can look really bad , they can be cover in black and look terrible , but actually they really do n't have much damage at all , '' she say . 
`` Other animal can look fine but the burn can be in the respiratory tract and sometimes the evidence of that do n't come up for a couple of day as well , and they can be really life-threatening and the animal might need to be put to sleep . '' 

Communities struggle this season 
Meanwhile , it have not be feel a lot like Christmas in part of fire-ravaged Victoria , with many community cancel festive event due to an increase fire threat this week . 
But one country town find the time to host a carols service last night , to give the local a break from the worry of drought and fire . 
Nova Underwood from Heyfield say it have be a stressful week , with the fire come within 7 kilometre of her property . 
`` Christmas have be put on the backburner , but we 're try to encourage the spirit this week , '' she say . 

Drought spur call to renew healthy sheep flock 
Sheep producer be be urge to take advantage of the drought , to refresh the gene pool of the national flock . 
Researchers at the Sheep Cooperative Research Centre have develop new technology to help grazier keep their best sheep , base on their breeding potential for wool and meat . 
Stud Merino Breeders Association president Will Roberts say producer be try hard to hang on to their best animal . 
`` In a lot of stud flock and thing they 're not always age structure , they 're quality structure , and it 's a little more difficult and people be less reluctant to sell those animal anyway , so they try to hang onto them , '' he say . 

Pork price climb this Christmas 
Demand for pork product have improve this Christmas , with price lift at retail level . 
The industry have be struggle against major competition from import during the past few year , not help by a strong Australian dollar . 
But New South Wales pork producer Neil Unger say price of around 300 cent per kilogram be not keep pace with increased production cost . 
`` Our cost of production be very , very close to $ 2.50 , '' he say . 
`` We lose probably 20 cent in dockage because we do n't like this one , that one be too skinny , that one be too fat . 

Turf industry lose out to rise water restriction 
Tightening water restriction in many part of Australia be take their toll on the turf-laying industry . 
The industry have lose $ 15 million this year , a home owner become reluctant to lay grass they can not water . 
Turf Producers Australia spokesman Ray Moir say South Australia have be the hard state hit by the drought , with it large business decide to close it door after 25 year . 
`` It 's have vary effect from state to state , '' he say . 

Authorities arrest 10 Malaysian farm worker 
Ten Malaysian worker have be arrest after allegedly work illegally on farm near Menindee , in western New South Wales . 
The group of six men and four woman have be send to Port Augusta in South Australia to face deportation . 
Federal Immigration Minister Amanda Vanstone say they will be transport out of Australia as soon a possible . 

Recycled water blame for lettuce damage 
Lettuce grower in Victoria fear their crop be be damage by recycled effluent water from the Werribee Sewage Farm , near Melbourne . 
More than half of Australia 's iceberg lettuce be grow at Werribee . 
The farmer have be use the recycled water since last year , when the State Government ban the use of underground water due to the drought . 
Southern Rural Water spokesman Clinton Rodda say an investigation be under way to find out what have cause stunt growth and discolouration of lettuce . 
`` Certainly the salinity be high than ideal and this be an interim scheme until , hopefully , the salt reduction program will move to low salt in the long-term , '' he say . 
`` But I think these farmer in Werribee south be very effective in the way they manage their crop , they 're aware of the high salinity . 
Some of them have deal with high salinity bore for many , many year in the past , so they learn how to deal with those high salinity level . '' 

Growers face pressure over wholesaler contract 
A Queensland horticulture group say grower have be pressure into sign contract by wholesaler try to avoid the industry 's new code of conduct . 
All contract sign on or after last Friday be subject to the code , which be design to improve transparency . 
Growcom spokesman Jan Davis say some grower have to sign contract before Friday , while others be ask to back-date agreement . 

NZ suspend Aust honey export 
Plans to export honey across the Tasman have hit a snag , with the New Zealand High Court suspend the trade until a full biosecurity risk assessment be complete . 
Biosecurity New Zealand have give the nod to import , but beekeeper appeal the interim decision , claim Australian honey contain disease that could threaten the local industry . 

Aust vegetable import outweigh export , grower say 
Vegetable grower say Australia be import far more produce than it export . 
Most of the surge have be for frozen and processed vegetable , particularly potato . 
Peak grower body Ausveg say import have jump by almost 35 per cent in the last four year , to $ 375 million . 
Ausveg spokesman Ian James say the trend be concern , especially when vegetable export have drop back because of a loss of market . 
`` Some of these frozen vegetable reflect renew or different source policy of the food processor in Australia , in particular , over the last 12 month anyway , a switch from Australian-sourced product to New Zealand-sourced product , '' he say . 
`` But there have also be some substantial increase in import come from the European Union as well . '' 

Emergency service fail to tackle fire : report 
An investigation into the 2003 Canberra bushfires have highlight a failure to attack fire early and a failure to warn the public of impend danger . 
Four people be kill and 500 home destroy in the blaze , which start in the mountain , west of Canberra . 
The coronial report make more than 70 recommendation , but there be concern over how the ACT Government will respond . 
ACT coroner Maria Doogan have hand down 15 finding on the cause of the fire . 
Among them , the ACT Emergency Services Bureau have fail to aggressively attack the fire . 
They withdraw crew on the night they start , fire trail be overgrow , and there be heavy fuel load . 
She also find that in the face of drought and extreme fire condition , the bureau have inadequate map , planning , bulldozer and other support for fire crew . 
The coroner have acknowledge that the ACT Government have already give more statutory power to emergency service , but have since return the fire control to answer to bureaucrats with no special emergency management knowledge . 

Science student need to combat future climate change 
A lack of student want to study agriculture and science be cause concern . 
Universities and scientific body say the shortage could hurt Australia 's ability to cope with issue like climate change and natural resource management . 
The University of Sydney be blame negative perception of the rural economy due to the drought , despite strong demand for graduate . 
CSIRO spokesman Murray Cameron say a shortage of math graduate have already delay some of it research program . 
`` A lot of Australia 's history in agriculture , for example , have be in our ability to use genetics to breed good animal , good plant specie , a lot of that in the future be about use mathematics effectively , '' he say . 

Fortescue gain access to BHP Billiton rail line 
The Federal Court have give Fortescue Metals Group open access to BHP Billiton 's iron ore rail line in Western Australia 's Pilbara region . 
The decision mean BHP Billiton can no longer stop other company from use the Mount Newman and Goldsworthy rail line , despite claim them a part of it own production process . 
Foretescue have successfully argue that the line be a 'service ' , under the Trade Practices Act and should be available to all company who need them . 
Fortescue spokesman Graeme Rowley say the court have uphold a right to fair competition . 
`` We not only now have achieve success for ourselves , but we 've also achieve success for Australia , '' he say . 
`` We now go to the Australian Competition Tribunal to ask them to approve effectively our access to that infrastructure . 
`` That overturn the Treasurer 's decision that we could not have that access . '' 

Cattle ID scheme issue be resolve : NLIS chairman 
The chairman of the National Livestock Identification Scheme ( NLIS ) for cattle say problem with the scheme be be address . 
A leaked copy of an audit of the scheme , commission by the federal Agriculture Minister , have highlight problem with farmer cooperation , scrutiny of the system and different level of state compliance . 
Chairman John Wyld say the NLIS be work well overall , but admits there be weakness , include the lack of a back-up plan if Telstra 's system support the database go down . 
`` Our contract with Telstra require a full disaster recovery plan , '' he say . 
`` Now I 'm aware there be an ongoing issue between MLA and Telstra , but it 's really a matter that Telstra 's not be able to comply with but it 's part of our contract . 

Drought blame for lucerne crop failure 
Dryland lucerne production in the upper south-east of South Australia have be hit hard by the drought with virtually no hay cut this year . 
The area between Tintinara and Naracoorte be generally regard a one of the nation 's big lucerne hay-producing region but have record it low rainfall total in a century . 
Charlie Hilton from Lucerne Australia say if there be no rain in the next three month , it be possible some long-established lucerne stand will be lose . 
`` If stand have thin out to be not economic to leave , they be go to have to be re-established , '' he say . 
`` Once you do that , you virtually lose production off those dryland paddock for a year . 

Turf grass producer bite the dust 
Tightening water restriction in many part of Australia be take their toll on the turf-laying industry . 
The industry have lose $ 15 million this year , a home owner become reluctant to lay grass they can not water . 
Ray Moir from Turf Producers Australia say South Australia have be hard hit by the drought . 
`` It 's have vary effect from state to state , '' he say . 

Darling River weir may prolong water period 
Two temporary weir have be build on the low portion of the Darling River in far western New South Wales to shore up water supply . 
The weir , about 50 kilometre north of Wentworth , be build from compact clay bank contain large pipe and regulator . 
Alan Whyte from Jamesville Station say it will not drought-proof the Darling , but it will give landholder a more reliable water supply . 
`` We know the river be go to cease to flow within two or three month ' time , '' he say . 
`` There be an opportunity to put some bank in to hold up a bit of water particularly for a few people who be below the exist Tulney Weir . 

Canberra bushfires report damn 
Landholders west of Canberra who warn authority about the impending fire danger in early 2003 say they have be vindicate by an investigation into the subsequent bushfires . 
The ACT coroner have release a damn report on poor preparation and fire management for the blaze , which kill four people and injured 400 others . 
One of the report 's major recommendation be that the Emergency Services Agency be reinstate a an independent body that be not answerable to bureaucrat . 
Val Jeffery , a long-term firefighter who be credit with save his village of Tharwa , say someone should be hold responsible for the disaster . 
`` There 's a stark lesson here for the rest of Australia , '' he say . 

Community 'weary ' from bushfires 
With temperature set to rise in Victoria in coming day , landholder in the state 's east be once again gear up to fight fire that be threaten private property . 
The fire have be burn for almost two week , destroy more than 700 hectare . 
Gippsland farmer Julie Duffy say many landholder , family and volunteer be become exhaust by the ongoing blaze . 
`` The whole community be weary , '' she say . 
`` The CFA have work tirelessly . 

Fuel theft cause concern 
Aviation fuel be be steal from some remote Top End airport and there be concern the theft could pose a major safety risk . 
Charity charter company Mission Aviation Fellowship say up to 60-litre batch of fuel be be take from aircraft in the small community of Milingimbi and Raminging in Arnhem Land . 
General manager Ian McBride say people be steal the $ 2 per litre fuel on a fortnightly basis to use in their own vehicle . 
`` Our main concern really , over and above the loss of the fuel , be the safety aspect , '' he say . 
`` Where aircraft get tamper with and fuel cap get leave off and possibly fuel tank contaminate . 

CWA distribute Xmas cheer to drought-stricken family 
The Country Women 's Association ( CWA ) have distribute some Christmas cheer to 680 family and 40 community in drought-stricken New South Wales . 
The state branch of the CWA have be allocate emergency fund a part of a Federal Government aid program in October . 
Up to $ 2,000 have be available to family to meet food and utility cost , while grant of $ 3,000 have help town to hold community event . 
Vice president Colleen Wills say the money have go where it be need most . 
`` To keep the phone go , car , for petrol , to get to town to do the shopping , to doctor - it 's all the basic , '' she say . 

'Santa ' drop in on remote station 
Planes fly to remote station be be load with hundred of kilogram of present in the lead-up to Christmas . 
Alice Springs-based Chart Air have fly to up to 60 property across the Northern Territory this week to deliver mail . 
Pilot John Zonaras say he have be re-named Santa because half his mailbag contain gift . 
`` The mail and that sort of stuff have definitely increase in volume , '' he say . 
`` Like today I have a mail run with 42 mailbag and about 350 kilogram so probably a good 150 kilogram of it be present . 

AWB payment to Saddam regime not bribe : ATO 
There have be a strong surge in AWB 's share price today after the Australian Taxation Office ( ATO ) clear the company of any wrongdoing in an investigation of payment make under the oil-for-food program . 
Findings from the Cole inquiry say AWB write off payment under the oil-for-food program a tax deduction , include those to truck company Alia . 
It have be think the company may have be liable for up to $ 450 million in penalty and unpaid tax . 
But in a statement to the stock exchange , AWB say the tax office have find the payment do not constitute bribe to foreign public official under the Income Tax Assessment Act . 
The stock market have react favourably , with AWB share gain more than 7 per cent this morning , trading at $ 2.81 shortly before 10:00am AEDT . 
Meanwhile AWB 's rival be be ask for detail on their price , return to grower and the effect their application might have on the national pool . 
The condition be set out in a letter from the Department of Agriculture send this week to all the company that want to export wheat . 
The letter say the Government want more information a it try to establish the 'public interest ' value of each application . 
Exporter Peter Howard from Ozepulse say some of condition be surprising . 
`` I think it 's unusual - we 've always think and argue in the past that any application approve would n't really have any effect to the detriment of the pool , '' he say . 
`` But I guess it 's a point in question look at what the cost might be to those pool participant , would they increase if these application be grant . 
`` Perhaps they would , but our answer be that surely AWB should be reduce those fee to those pool participant . '' 

NSW , WA support single desk 
In another development , New South Wales grain grower have step up the battle to save the single desk wheat export system at a rally in the Riverina . 
Farmers in southern New South Wales have precious little wheat to sell this year , but about 350 be in Narrandera to show their support for the single desk . 
Local farmer Hugh Hart say it maximise return to grower in a corrupt world market . 
`` Give the power of veto back to the company , '' he say . 
`` Let them get on with the job and let 's all look forward , so when it start to rain we can make a quid again and cut all this rubbish out . 
`` We 've have enough - no more inquiry , no more consultation , just get on with the job . '' 
Nationals MP Kay Hull say farmer need to voice their support for the single desk to silence a noisy minority in the Federal Government . 
National Party Senators Ron Boswell and Barnaby Joyce be expect to address the crowd . 
In Western Australia , 200 grower have also back the single desk at a public meeting in the Wheatbelt town of Mingenew . 
Farmer Peter Hord say the meeting will probably come to nothing . 
`` It seem to be typical of all of the meeting that have take place , '' he say . 
US TAKES ACTION AGAINST AWB 
US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns have temporarily ban wheat exporter AWB from use his department 's program , in the wake of the Cole Inquiry . 
Johanns act follow his directive last month that USDA resume debarment proceeding against AWB . 
He say he 's suspended AWB , several individual and a Minnesota commodity firm from USDA program or purchase . 
`` The extent of our ability to act here be debarment . 
`` Now , Congress may look at this and say there 's a need for a legislative approach . They certainly have a right to do that . 
The suspension do not prevent Australian wheat from be sell in the US or affect AWB 's ability to trade on commodity exchange . 
AWB spokesman Peter McBride say the program have only ever be a small part of the business . 
They include US government subsidy and loan guarantee for sell US crop overseas . 
He say the company voluntarily withdraw from the program , when the UN inquiry into the Oil for Food program begin . 
`` We have not use this export subsidy program since early 2004 and we inform the USDA earlier this year that we would voluntarily stand aside from use the program in the foreseeable future . 
`` So we 'll continue discussion with the USDA go forward , but we have n't use the program in a long time and we do n't envisage use it '' . 
AWB 's share continue to trade strongly after yesterday 's clearance by the Australian Tax Office . 
The ATO have accept that payment make under the Oil-for-Food program do not constitute bribe to foreign public official , under the Income Tax Assessment Act . 
Austock analyst Paul Jensz say the ruling be worth around 50 cent to the share price . 
`` It 's one of the first bit of positive news to come out of what have be a fairly devastating year . 
`` This do help the momentum inside the company and the renewal and the change that they 're do on a cultural level and a cost level '' . 

Not enough full-time doctor 
While rural Australia continue to cry out for doctor , there 's now alarm over the fall number of doctor willing to work full time . 
The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare say the number of full-time GPs fell more than 30 per cent between 2000 and 2004 . 
It say some country resident be now wait up to three week for an appointment . 
Dr Peter Rischbieth , from the Rural Doctors Association , say the holiday season will put extra pressure on rural community . 
`` There be some town that have massive influx of population through the tourist and holiday season , and some of these town do struggle to provide appointment for both their resident and the tourist who be arrive , as well a some doctor understandably want to have leave during this time with their families '' 

Wool grower advise to keep sheep 
With the best demand condition for wool in five year analyst be urge farmer to hang onto their sheep , with strong price expect to continue into 2007 . 
Although the cost of hand feeding be prove difficult to meet for many wool producer , some analyst think price could reach ten year high in the New Year . 
Chief economist at Woolmark Chris Wilcox say the low forecast in production be also keep demand strong . 
`` The question that I be be ask in China revolve largely about supply concern . 
`` That , I think , will without doubt help support demand , certainly in the first quarter of 2007 . It be worth persist particularly into the first quarter and maybe a bit beyond '' . 

Banks back victorian farmer 
It 's be a pretty grim season for grain grower in Western Victoria , but the major bank be confident that there be still a future for farm in the region . 
Senior staff from seven lead bank have attend forum this week to reassure farmer that they be n't plan to foreclose on property . 
Bill Dean from the NAB say bank have work hard over the past decade to improve their relationship with farmer . 
`` I think the most important thing for farm customer be to keep the line of communication open , to sit down with their banker , explore the option and work out where they be go to go . 
`` In the majority of case , we 're see customer that , whilst they be concern about what have happen in the last 12 month , they be very confident about the long term future , a the bank is '' . 

Confidence about gm wheat trial 
Victoria 's first crop of genetically modify wheat could be in the ground as early a next year , despite a state moratorium on commercial crop of GM canola . 
The Government have apply for a permit and hope to have trial of the drought resistant wheat approve by June next year . 
Dr Bruce Kefford from the Department of Primary Industries be confident of the trial 's success . 
`` This be work we have do in collaboration with the CRC for Molecular Plant Breeding , some colleague in South Australia , and other party . 
`` There be actually a number of line which have a number of potential treatment for drought resistance in them and we 've get about thirty line that will be trialled in quite small trial if it 's approved '' . 

DAIRY FARMERS FEAR FEED PRICE RISES 
The dairy industry be worry that a high level of wheat export could affect local feed grain price . 
The Federal Government be expect to announce tomorrow , whether it will allow company other than AWB to ship wheat overseas . 
Head of Australian Dairy Farmers John McQueen say any further increase in grain price would hurt the industry . 
`` As far a domestic price go , it should make no impact whatsoever , and we would be very disappointed if export do anything to domestic price . 
`` Domestic price should not at any time go above import parity and our preference would be low than import parity . 
`` Export licence should not give a green light to anybody increase domestic price for grain '' . 

LOCAL FISH COSTLY FOR CHRISTMAS 
The Sydney Fish Markets be prepare for the Christmas rush , with 80,000 customer expect through the door this weekend . 
But they 'll be face with an expensive decision about whether to pay high price for local produce , or buy cheap frozen import . 
The price contrast be expect to be even great this Christmas , with the market ' big supplier face it bad year in four decade . 
Russell Creighton from the Clarence River Fisherman 's Co-operative say drought have claim another casualty . 
`` The seafood catch have probably be one of the low I 've experience and I 've be here for forty year . 
`` And the contributing factor play a big part be the drought , because there 's no nutrient run into the river , and the river be the nursery for both inshore and offshore specie of prawn and crustacean . So we 're really feel the pinch this Christmas '' . 

BEE INDUSTRY BUZZING 
Beekeepers in eastern Australia be have mixed fortune . 
The eucalypt be burst with flower and nectar in southern New South Wales , but low world price , bushfires and drought be hurt . 
Seventy per cent of Australian honey come from eucalypt , and right now the gum in the Southern Tablelands be full of flower . 
Doug Sommerville with the NSW Department of Primary Industries say it 's in response to a break after the last drought and the intensity of this one : `` The fella be make good honey right now , off snow gum , yellow box , red gum , all in the nice quality honey '' . 
But he say disaster be imminent with the drought continue and beekeeper Greg Roberts say the fire of 2001 and now be devastate . 
`` It take many , many year for specie such a stringybark to come back after fire . '' 
With low world honey price , Australian beekeeper be switch from export honey to export live bee to the US , under the free trade agreement . 

REMOTE BUT EFFECTIVE 
A new survey suggest that landholder in isolated area should be use remote monitoring technology to save more time and money . 
The Kondinin farm research group travel Australia look into technology , such a virtual fencing , walkover weighing and remote control helicopter mustering . 
And Research and Development Manager Ben White say they find remote water monitoring have the most potential to improve efficiency on property . 
The report , fund by Meat and Livestock Australia , will be release in February . 
KIWI WOMEN CHIP IN TO HELP IN BUSHFIRE BATTLE 
New Zealand farming woman be offer help to Australian family affect by the bushfires . 
Rural Women New Zealand be try to find out what help be need , so member can raise money , or send food parcel . 
President Sherryl Dackers say the group have be in email contact with similar woman 's network in Victoria . 
`` From Australia we 've have the suggestion that we may be able to support some woman who probably after this disaster wo n't be able to afford to go to a conference which be be hold in Australia , and also with food parcel . 
`` What we a rural woman New Zealand would like know be what your rural people would need in way of assistance '' . 

AT ONE WITH TUNA IN BRINE 
Forget swim with the dolphin . Tourists can now swim with the most valuable fish in the sea - tuna . 
In South Australia , a Port Lincoln charter company will allow people to swim in a sea farm with about 100 tuna fish , worth up to $ 5,000 each . 
Matt Waller , from Calypso Star Charters , reckons there 'll be plenty of interest . 
`` I 've see them sit behind a boat at 10 to 12 knot , sort of 15 to 20 kilometre an hour for up to half an hour . I 've see quick reflex speed of probably 40 to 50 kilometre an hour . 
`` They travel all around Australia , around the world , and they return to the same place year after year . 

AWB payment to Saddam regime not bribe : ATO 
Cattle ID scheme issue be resolve : NLIS chairman 
Drought blame for lucerne crop failure 
Turf grass producer bite the dust 
Darling River weir may prolong water period 
Canberra bushfires report damn 
Community 'weary ' from bushfires 
Fuel theft cause concern 
CWA distribute Xmas cheer to drought-stricken family 
'Santa ' drop in on remote station 

Stallholders feed up with Christmas produce 
Stallholders at fresh food market around the country could be suffer from festive fatigue . 
Fruit and vegetable seller , as well a seafood and poultry stall owner , seem to be a bit reluctant to eat their own produce this Christmas . 
Here be some view from Melbourne 's Queen Victoria Market . 
`` We 've already 'mangoed ' out , the kid do n't want any more , '' one stallholder say . 
`` I do n't really go for the turkey at Christmas lunch , I generally go for more ... lamb or beef or something , '' another say . 

Poor harvest disappoints NT grape grower 
There be financial pressure on Northern Territory table grape grower after another disappointing harvest in the major production area . 
Nematodes and termite have mean that most of the vine in the Ti-Tree region have have to be replant in recent year . 
The president of the Northern Territory Grape Producers Association , Greg Kahl , say producer expect high yield from the young vine in the next few year . 
`` We 've be battle on for a number of year , our production still have n't get back to the level , 2000/2001 harvest , '' he say . 
`` Basically on expectation across the board [ we 're ] about 60 per cent down . 

New owner for Cowra abattoir 
An abattoir in central western New South Wales , at the centre of a row over the Federal Government 's workplace reform , have a new owner . 
The previous owner of the Cowra abattoir sack 28 staff under the WorkChoices legislation and then offer to reinstate them at a low rate . 
The plant be hand over to adminstrators in August this year and then close . 
New owner Chris Cummins say major change will have to be make to make the abattoir viable . 
`` Obviously we will have a reduction in staff , '' he say . 
`` The place fail before because it be over-manned . 
`` For a start there will be work an eight hour day , which be n't the case before . 
`` All the chain will be wind back . 
`` We will have a pretty good product come out of there , probably a good a product a anywhere on New South Wales will come out of there . 
`` It 's a good plant and need a little bit of money spending on it , it be in a great position . 

King Island to sign Kyoto protocol 
Tasmania 's King Island be plan to sign the Kyoto protocol and formally commit to reduce it greenhouse emission . 
While the island be well-known for it clean and green produce , resident believe that sign the agreement would far boost it reputation . 
Mayor Charles Arnold say he hop the move will also send a clear message to the Federal Government , which be refuse to ratify the protocol . 
`` Our politician think by their hip pocket and if they see that the people in the community want to stand up and be hear , I think that 's what should happen , '' he say . 

US considers farm spending cut 
The US administration be openly discuss the need to cut US farm spending , even before a possible resumption of world trade talk . 
US Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns tell a reporter recently that the US farm support system may be sit in quick sand , under challenge abroad in the WTO ( World Trade Organisation ) and under fire at home with a budget strain by war in Iraq and Afghanistan . 
`` We 're do all we can to get the federal budget under control , '' he say . 
`` The leadership now of the House and the Senate have talk very , very publicly about this notion that you have to pay for thing a you go . 
`` Those be strong message that the budget be go to have an impact on policy . '' 

Woolworths CEO detail drought relief strategy 
Sustainable agriculture , drought relief and climate change be the three issue dominate the agenda for the new bos of Woolworths . 
Chief executive Michael Luscombe say the supermarket chain have plan to create 'green supermarket ' , improve the company 's waste management and reward producer whose farm be environmentally friendly . 
Mr Luscombe say in the short-term , the company be work with the Country Women 's Association on a special drought relief project . 
`` We have decide that we 're go to have a national drought relief action day on the 23rd of January , '' he say . 
`` And on that particular day in 760 supermarket we 're go to donate the profit from that entire day 's sale to drought relief . '' 

Early Christmas gift for central NSW farmer 
Christmas have arrive early for at least one lucky farmer in central New South Wales . 
With water supply so critically low , many landholder will not be spend the festive season with family who live far away because they can not risk leave the farm for even a day in case stock run out of feed and water . 
But Paul Stewart from Mudgee be lucky enough to be under an isolated thunderstorm yesterday that have revitalise his Christmas spirit . 
`` Almost every dam be empty and almost every dam be full to overflow , '' he say . 
`` It be beautiful to watch because we have absolutely no chance of get away at all with worry about trough and pump water from here to the stock , but we wo n't have to worry about that now . '' 
The weather bureau be forecast possible isolated shower and storm late today and tomorrow over most of New South Wales . 
A rain band be move in from the south-west and rain be forecast this weekend right across the state . 

Thunderstorms bring welcome rain to Eyre Peninsula 
There have be a wide range of rainfall total record in South Australia , a a result of large thunderstorm which cross the state overnight . 
While the rain barely settle the dust in some area , dam be fill on the eastern Eyre Peninsula and through the state 's mid-north . 
Jan Girdham , who farm between Kimba and Cleve , have one of the high total with 52 millimetre . 

MIS plantation forestry tax incentive to stay 
The Federal Government have decide not to remove tax advantage for investor in plantation forestry under manage investment scheme ( MIS ) . 
But under new change it will change the law , to ensure that at least 70 per cent of investor 's money be spend on tree , instead of other project . 
Farmers believe the scheme create unfair competition for land and water , but assistant treasurer Peter Dutton say the farm sector also receive help . 
`` The Government have put in place a deliberate strategy to make sure that we support the forestry industry , '' he say . 
`` At the same time we have provide many other tax incentive and support through the tax system and government policy and otherwise for traditional farming measure such a the Farm Management Deposit Account so it 's about provide a balance . '' 
The Government have also launch a three-month review of the taxation of non-forestry MIS for crop such a grape and tomato . 
But there be criticism from the investment and the farm sector over the continuation of the timber tax deduction . 
Former rural banker and agricultural business consultant David Cornish say the Government have do nothing to address community concern over the impact of plantation . 
He say traditional farm enterprise be be overlook . 
`` These be just massive tax distortion or subsidy which be lead to distortion of capital into rural Australia , '' he say . 

Govt to buy back more scallop fishing licence 
The Federal Government will buy back another 150 fishing licence a part of it program to reduce over-fishing in Australian water . 
The new scheme include one third of the scallop fisher in the northern prawn fishery and 14 per cent of Bass Strait scallop fisher . 
Their early application for buyout be not consider good value by the Government . 

McGauran approve non-AWB wheat export contract 
Federal Agriculture Minister Peter McGauran have approve two wheat export contract for company other than AWB . 
One of the contract be for 300,000 tonne for Wheat Australia to ship wheat to Iraq , where AWB have be ban from trading and one for Western Australian-based CBH of 500,000 tonne to Indonesia . 
Mr McGauran say of the 46 application receive they be the only two consider to be in the public interest . 
He say AWB have give assurance the two application will not have an impact on national pool return . 
As a condition of the export permit , both Wheat Australia and CBH must contribute $ 4 a tonne to the national pool up to a total of 800,000 tonne . 
Meanwhile , the head of AWB International have warn the Federal Government he will have no other choice than to wind up the company , if it veto over wheat export be remove permanently . 
AWB International chairman Ian Donges say the Government must be careful in what it decide . 
`` I think a lot of commentary have be around , '' he say . 
`` We can have the the bulk veto power with someone else and have a permit system along side a single desk system . 
`` Quite clearly you ca n't do that . 
`` If the single desk close down or in fact change to the point where we do n't have a future for the say [ in ] the 2007 pool then we will phase out of business . 

Early grain harvest see farmer enjoy pre-Christmas activity 
Victorian grain farmer be be rope into Christmas preparation by their family , with harvest finish early . 
Usually most cropper be strip paddock right up to and after Christmas day , but the drought have have a drastic impact on yield . 
Grain grower say the extra time this year be a mixed blessing . 
`` I actually do n't sow a crop this year , so maybe I 'll have an early Christmas , a nice early Christmas , '' one grower say . 
`` Had a bit more Christmas shopping time , so it 's good to get that do instead of at the last minute , '' another say . 
